This article was originally published on Rooted in Rights here. It has been adapted for the We Need Diverse Books audience.
As meetings and events in the book world continue to take place in virtual spaces as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, accessibility is too often an afterthought. Even event organizers who normally work to make sure their in-person events are accessible seem to forget that virtual events need to be accessible for the disability community, too. Data from the Pew Research Center shows that disabled people are actually much less likely to use the internet, which may be in part because inaccessibility remains a serious barrier.
So, lets break down this barrier. Accessibility for virtual events should be a priority and central to the planning process from the beginning.
As a starting point, think about the scope of your virtual event and what platform you plan to host it on. Disabled people are twice as likely to be unemployed or live in poverty, and internet access and devices like laptops, smartphones, and tablets can be expensive. Provide information on how to access the event for people with limited or no access to internet at home, and be willing to share information offline too, says Lydia X. Z. Brown, a disabled advocate, attorney, and adjunct professor. If youre hosting an event over video conferencing software like Zoom, Google Hangouts, or GoToMeeting, offer the option for attendees to dial-in by phone and participate without a computer or internet.
If everyone will have internet access, what other technology might attendees need to fully participate? If the event is being held on social media (i.e., Facebook Live, Instagram Live/Stories, YouTube), do attendees need to have an account on that platform to take part? Have you looked into any accessibility issues inherent to the platform you are using?
Check out this guide: Best video conferencing apps and software for accessibility.
I think that organizers should always be aware of the accessibility of the platform they intend to use, says Keenan Provencher, a recent college graduate who is visually impaired and uses VoiceOver technology. Explore the accessibility features that are built-in to the platforms youre considering for the event and determine what you might need to provide, such as captioning. Compare the different options available for hosting your event to see which is the best fit.
As youre planning and creating events, make sure to reach out to disabled speakers, performers, and other talent who may be interested and available for your events. If youre putting together a series of authors to read their work, include disabled authors. If you are organizing a comedy show, hire disabled comedians to be part of it. If youre hosting a webinar series on money management, have disabled financial experts among your speakers. Disabled people should be present at every stage of your planning process: Invite and include them as speakers and assume that they will also be attending your virtual events.
Your virtual events need to be accessible to people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Access needs arent universal, so be open to exploring different tools and technology to make sure that your attendees have no problem attending the event.
Organizers need to be patient with people with ID when explaining online platforms, explains Liz Weintraub, the senior advocacy specialist at the Association of University Centers on Disability. At first, I got really nervous about using Zoom and Adobe Connect because I wasnt sure I could use them. But my colleagues were patient was me and if one way doesnt work, then try something else. Weintraub points out that not all online platforms are equally accessible so a willingness to experiment and try something else is important.
Noor Pervez, the community engagement coordinator at Autistic Self Advocacy Network, says that access needs around sensory issues, such as extremely loud videos, need to be considered for virtual events just as they would for in-person events. He also recommends leaving in time to process information, such as a 10-minute break every hour or so.
Weintraub suggests that event organizers create a tip sheet for online platforms with directions so people will feel comfortable with online platforms. The tip sheet can include step-by-step information about how to use the platform(s) and the option to attend training sessions about the platform(s) before the event. The most important thing for access, she says, is to be patient and not rush attendees.
Event organizers should always share what they are already planning to do to increase access for their events, says Brown, and how people who may have other access needs can request that those needs be met. Make it possible for your attendees to (anonymously or with their name and RSVP attached) request that specific access needs be met. This is particularly helpful if someone has very individualized access needs outside of the ones you and other organizers have prepared for.
- Factor the costs of captioning, sign language interpretation, and other potential accommodations into your budget.
- Make sure the service youre using to host the virtual event is compatible with assistive technology like screen readers.
- Ensure the platform youre using allows for computer-based audio listening/speaking and phone-based audio listening/speaking.
- Make sure your events are accessible to augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) users by offering multiple ways for attendees to participate, answer questions, submit questions, and interact.
- Offer training sessions with event organizers/volunteers prior to the event on how to use the platform(s) the event will be hosted on.
- Offer all accessibility information upfront and publicly to interested attendees.
- Have an accessibility point person who can assist with troubleshooting or access issues and provide contact information for them.
- Give attendees the opportunity to (anonymously, if desired) share any additional accessibility requests that were not covered in the events access information.
- Share the format of the event (e.g. discussion vs. listening to a presentation, or something else) and how long it plans to run for so attendees can plan around their need to take breaks, arrive late, leave early, etc.
- Provide any written or visual materials ahead of time to give people an idea of what to expect and the ability to plan in advance. Be sure to use an accessible file format.
- Allow attendees to send questions and comments in advance.
- Give notice about questions that participants might be asked to respond to, even icebreakers (for example, Everyone introduce yourself and say where youre from).
- Make it clear to attendees that they will have an opportunity to ask questions so they can prepare.
- Provide a glossary of terms that will be used during the event and define them.
- If you have chosen to use Zoom, take precautions to avoid Zoombombing and other security issues.
- Make sure everyone has access to any links or login codes they need to join a live video call ahead of time.
- Take a look at the Inclusive Design Principles and see how your event planning holds up to them. How can you be as inclusive as possible?
For more, check out these Accessibility Tips for a Better Zoom/Virtual Meeting Experience.
- Include detailed, step-by-step directions of how to get on the event and how to use the platform.
- Ensure that fonts are easy to read and text is large and has good color contrast.
- Be mindful of jargon, slang, and assumed knowledge to be inclusive of all attendees.
- Avoid ableist and other negative language.
- Ensure your slides are uncluttered and consider using images to help explain concepts.
- If you use images, include alternative text and image descriptions.
- Do not use flashing or strobing animations in a presentation or other materials you and other event organizers are creating. If you are including material that already has strobing or flashing, such as a showing of a film or television show, remove the strobing from the original material or skip that portion of the material. If you absolutely must include something that has flashing or strobing (which, again, should really be avoided at all costs), then you must ensure you put a very clear warning in place before showing the material.
- If youre sharing pre-recorded video, be sure to describe whats happening in the video and add captions using programs like Final Cut or Adobe Premiere, or apps like Clipomatic, Clips, Caption This, and AutCap.
- If youre uploading the video to YouTube, you have the option to use automated captions and then edit those captions to fix any errors before publishing.
- Hire a professional to write captions for your videos, using websites like Rev, Alternative Communications Services, and ASLCaptions.
- Hire a professional to provide sign language interpretation; you can find ASL interpreters using resources like the Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf.
- Hire a professional provide real-time captioning through vendors such as National Captioning Institute, CaptionAccess, and Streamtext, especially for webinars and other events where speakers will be interacting with attendees and answering questions in real time.
Check out this video on 3 Ways To Make Your Content More Accessible For Disabled People.
Looking for an all-in-one guide on digital accessibility? Check out Rooted in Rights #AccessThat resources on transcripts, audio description, captions, and alt-text.
According to 3-Play Media, To ensure your live-stream content is accessible, youll need three things: live captions, live descriptions, and a good audio environment. Also, be sure to have a staff member or volunteer responsible for ensuring accessibility needs are met during the event.
- Make sure your audio is clear; poor audio quality can make it hard for people to access the event and/or use apps that can help reduce background noise on calls, such as Krisp.
- Have your speakers use a headset whenever possible if this is accessible to them to improve audio.
- Hosts and presenters should use a quiet room where they wont be disturbed whenever possible.
- Mute all attendees but those speaking to keep background noise to a minimum so that attendees can easily hear.
- Ask people speaking to say their name every time they speak, so captioners and attendees alike all know who is talking.
For more tips, check out this article: How to help students with a hearing impairment as courses move online.
- Make sure the speakers face is well-lit and can be clearly seen.
- If there is a method that will be used to vote or flag who can speak next, make sure all participants can access the process.
- Describe live scenarios. For example, if you are presenting a live video tutorial of applying makeup, you could describe the process: I am now applying a dark purple lipstick to my upper lip.
- Describe any images, read any text that appears on screen, and describe anything that you gesture at as if you were explaining it to someone who isnt in the same room as you.
For more tips, check out this article: 5 Accessibility Actions You Can Take When Youre Moving Your Conference or Classes Online.
- Be patient with your attendees when youre explaining how to use online platforms, especially if they are new to the platform and havent used it before. Repeat information if necessary.
- Use accessible, plain language during the event and avoid using jargon.
- Build processing time/breaks into your event.
- Leave ample time for questions.
- Offer the option for anyone using chat boxes to have their messages read aloud to everyone during the event (either by using a revoicer or having an event organizer read them.
For more information on inclusive meetings, check out this Inclusive Meetings guide from the Autistic Self Advocacy Network.
- Share materials in an accessible format.
- If your team live-tweeted the event or if a Twitter chat was part of the event, create a blog post or other easy-to-read collection of those tweets for anyone who was unable to participate live.
- Offer your attendees the opportunity to provide feedback about the event, including accessibility, to help you prepare to plan the next one.
- Make accessibility an ongoing, inclusive conversation in your community for all types of events.
Even for disabled people, accessibilityand doing the work to make sure your own events are accessibleis a learning process. Its important for all of us to acknowledge that others may have access needs that differ from our own. Instead of making assumptions, offer your attendees easy and clear ways to request their specific access needs be met and to provide feedback after your event, which you can use as a learning experience for the next one.
If youre hosting smaller events tailored to a specific group of attendees, such as virtual webinars for your employees or sober community and recovery meetings to replace in-person ones, check in with that community. Make it an inclusive, ongoing conversation around access needs in everything youre doing virtually so that everyone, including disabled people, has a voice in what platforms are being used and how.
We can all make accessibility a priority and remain open-minded to changing our processes, learning more, and creating events that are inclusive and welcoming to all.
Alaina Leary (Lavoie) is the communications manager of We Need Diverse Books. She also teaches in the graduate department of Writing, Literature, and Publishing at Emerson College and is a book reviewer for Booklist. She received a 2017 Bookbuilders of Boston scholarship for her work in the publishing industry. Her writing has been published in New York Times, Teen Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Refinery29, Allure, Healthline, Glamour, The Oprah Magazine, and more. She currently lives in Boston with her wife and their two literary cats. Follow her @AlainasKeys on Instagram and Twitter.

Congratulations to the Alcala family on their new kitten Pudge!
Animal Ambassador and shelter photographer extraordinaire, Kali Brooks, knew of a family with a very deserving young girl named Mary who was recently diagnosed with brain cancer. Mary's mom had seen a photo of Pudge on Kali's Facebook page and knew that Pudge would be just the thing for her daughters. Kali contacted her friends at the HSVC on their behalf and the shelter staff and Pudge's foster mom, Angela Hanline, agreed that Pudge was meant to be a part of their family. Yesterday Marlo, Mandy and Hope came to officially welcome Pudge into their family and take this little fluff ball home!
Pudge brought so much happiness to the staff and volunteers while she was here and we are so happy to see her off to bring joy and love to her new family! Happy tears from all of us at the HSVC!

GUANTANAMO BAY, Cuba, Sept. 14, 2003 -- The people who guard it call it simply "The Wire."
At the U.S. Naval Base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, miles of razored coils wrap the Delta Prison Camp, binding 660 men U.S. officials deemed "enemy combatants," mostly during the Afghanistan phase of the war on terror.
But "The Wire," and the facility's magnetically locked doors, are perhaps more significant for what they're keeping out lawyers, family members, and the protections of U.S. and international law.
"I think it's maybe the most lawless set of actions the United States government has taken in my lifetime," said Stuart Taylor, a legal columnist for the National Journal.
The military prefers to keep the focus on the physical conditions of the facility, which it has worked hard to improve.
"The treatment of the detainees here at Camp Delta reflects the very best traditions of how our nation treats our enemies," said Maj. Gen. Geoffrey Miller, commander of Joint Task Force Guantanamo.
Cameras are kept out, though military-approved photos have been released. ABCNEWS got a partial glimpse inside the facility, and produced some sketches.
The cells are spartan, but fairly cool.
There are three teenagers among the detainees, who hail from 42 countries.
The prisoners, mostly Muslims, are allowed to observe their religion. They have daily calls to prayer, among other things.
Good behavior wins special privileges, a place at Camp Four, where they have group meals outside.
Three juvenile prisoners have views of the sea. For some, it's the first time they have ever seen it, and it appears to fascinate them.
But the three juveniles apparently love to watch videos on their television, too.
Staff Sgt. Molly Jaffe, a guard, said some prisoners are curious about their captors, saying, "They want to know just as much about you as you may want to know about them."
Still, many argue that humane treatment is no substitute for basic legal rights. Taylor and others say the Geneva Conventions require hearings to determine why the men are being held.
There have been 32 suicide attempts, by 21 individuals, to date.
Letters home obtained by ABCNEWS show despair. One Kuwaiti prisoner wrote that he wants "to die, as I cannot stand this place."
In fact, even as the military at Guantanamo Bay tried to show ABCNEWS that life behind the prison's fences is more than humane, some top Bush administration officials are said to like the idea that Guantanamo frightens its inmates. They are said to be investigating whether it would be possible to send some Iraqi prisoners there.
A top administration official estimated it could take the better part of 10 years before many of those held at Guantanamo get out. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has said most probably will be held until the war against terrorism ends.
Camp officials told ABCNEWS that it's the uncertainty of their fate that is the worst punishment for the prisoners.
The guards should know, because they probably spend more time with Guantanamo's inmates than anyone else.
"When you're inside The Wire, it's always professional," said Staff Sgt. Troy Jansen, one of the guards, "because otherwise, that might affect some sort of decision you might have to make."
Most of the soldiers don't want to get too close. But some hope, at least, that their unusual relationship might have a purpose.
"Eventually, when they get released back to their country," said Sgt. Joseph Ademuwagun, a guard, "they'll tell people Americans are generous and good people."
ABCNEWS' Claire Shipman, Cindy Smith and Kendra Gahagan contributed to this report.

Happy Holidays, readers! Ive got my Harry Potter hanging tree (I have cats) all decorated and in the festive spirit. The stockings for the cats are hung under it with care. Theres a Hogwarts sitting on my table covered in fake snow. Its the most wonderful time of the year!
I know its been some time since Ive connected with you all here on the websites. Ive been busy plugging away on final edits for Madame Vampire, and the good news is that its almost ready. Ive also been planning for events Ill be appearing at next year, and Im really excited about that.
Ive got some good news to share with you for this holiday season, though. For a limited time, all three of my books in the Alex Grosjean Adventures are available exclusively through Amazon and through Amazons Kindle Unlimited program. There is no better time than to get caught up on what our favorite detective has been up to.
I will still have copies available at conventions, of course. And if you buy a hard copy of any books online, please bring them to me: I would love to sign them for you!
I hope that you all have a wonderful holiday season and a very happy new year! See you in 2018!

While drunk driving deaths fell in the state of Florida last year, highway safety advocates are continuing to push for government funding for more prevention efforts.
According to a report by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 3,133 people died in car accidents in Florida in 2018. 814 of those were caused by drunk driving.
In 2017, 841 of the 3,116 deaths in vehicle accidents in the state involved alcohol.
Alcohol-impaired driving is considered any blood alcohol content over the legal limit of .08.
The NHTSA report showed a 3.6% decrease in traffic fatalities involving drunk drivers nationwide. It is the lowest percentage since the administration started measuring alcohol-related vehicle deaths in 1982.
But even so, drunk driving crashes remain the biggest problem on American roads.
There has been a slight reduction in impaired driving-related fatalities across the nation, said Larry Coggins, the regional director of . However, one thing to remember is, [impaired driving] is still the number one killer on our roads that claims a little bit over 10,500 lives annually.
To combat alcohol- and drug-impaired driving, the NHTSA gave more than $100,000 to states last December through the . This money is being used to finance law enforcement training courses to better recognize the tell-tale signs of drunk driving.
The grant also provides funding for the use of an ignition interlock device which acts as a breathalyzer and requires the driver to blow into a mouthpiece to start the car.
One of the things that MADD is a proponent for and is trying to pass in all states, is the use of the ignition interlock device for all offenders, said Coggins. Right now 31 states have passed legislation, mandating that first-time DUI offenders must have an ignition interlock device.
Coggins said those devices work - MADD reports a 16% decline in fatalities in those states that have passed the legislation.
We continue to work on reminding people that impaired driving, whether it's alcohol, whether it's drugs or prescription medication, continues to be one of the number one killers on our roads, said Coggins. It can affect anyone of us at any time and it's something that everyone needs to be cognizant of.
To see the number of alcohol-related vehicle accident deaths for individual Florida counties, click here.

NBC has put in development an untitled comedy from former Happy Endings writer-produces, brothers Matthew and Daniel Libman, L.A. Clippers star Blake Griffin and The Panthers Ryan Kalil. Universal TV is the studio.
Written by Matthew and Daniel Libman, the untitled project centers on two brothers with a significant age difference who work together, despite being in very different places in their lives. The Libman brothers, who are eight years apart in age, executive produce with Griffin and Kalin via their production company, Mortal Media. Also executive producing are former Telenovela exec producers Josh Bycel and Jon Fener under their overall deal with Universal TV. Noah Weinstein oversees development for Mortal Media.
Friends Griffin and Kalil teamed up earlier this year to launch the Los Angles-based production company Mortal Media, which already has set up a sequel to the Disney 1991 movie The Rocketeer. In TV, Griffin executive produces Okies of Bel Air, an animated comedy presentation for Fox, written by writer-comedian Sean OConnor, which borrows some elements from Griffins life.
Matthew and Daniel Libmans credits also include Metalocalypse, Bad Teacher, and Marry Me. The duo are repped by UTA and attorney Ken Richman. Mortal Media is repped by UTA for TV.
Subscribe to Deadline Breaking News Alerts and keep your inbox happy.

Get lucky and surprise your girl with this stunning Four-leaf clover chain necklace. A delicate piece of jewel crafted from solid 18k rose gold and small diamonds detailing on a perfectly crafted four-leaf clover. An exciting yet straightforward jewelry piece to add the touch of perfection to all outfits.
Each necklace is handmade after an order is placed. Please be patient and allow 2-4 weeks crafting time to ensure the highest of quality before delivery.

The Alpine Corporation 11 inch Tiered Stone Indoor / Outdoor Tabletop Fountain will help wash away your stress. Unplug from the day and meditate to the sound of flowing water with this soothing Alpine fountain. Experience tranquility and zen as th...
I bought this based on the description which says: "Let the tranquil sound of natural flowing water produced by the Eternity Tabletop Fou...

Retirement is the time of your life where you need to enjoy the fruits of your hard work. Spending time with your family, trying a new hobby or maybe even moving to a new state.
It is important, now that you are retired, to learn how to cut some of the taxes, mostly because you have a fixed income and you want to enjoy the savings you worked so hard for your whole life.
However, because we know how high taxes can go we thought we should present you a list with tips of how you can benefit of some breaks.
It is important that during your retirement you enjoy your free time and not deal with taxes, because they can be pretty irritating.
Its only fair that after decades of hard work to finally savor your free time and money you worked your whole life for. We hope you find this article helpful and you will benefit from some of these tips.
If you are familiar with other tax breaks for retirees let us know down below in the comments.
You may also find helpful this related article: How All 50 States Are Taxing Retirees In 2021.

Long-time friend and client Gary Gwilliam will be presenting at the Civil Justice for Victims of Crime in California conference to be held on Monday, April 20th in Oakland, CA. The conference will be an all day event hosted by The National Center for Victims of Crime.
Gary Gwilliam, founding Partner of Gwilliam, Ivary, Chiosso, Cavalli & Brewer, A Professional Corporation, has been championing the fight for victims for more than 40 years. Hes published countless works, providing leadership for others who join the cause for victims rights. He and his partners have been successfully obtaining justice for their clients against the largest insurance companies and corporations since 1978. No fight is too big for this team.
The mission of the National Center for Victims of Crime is to forge a national commitment to help victims of crime rebuild their lives. They are dedicated to serving individuals, families and communities harmed by crime.
The Oakland conference to be held on April 20th includes a host of excellent speakers - seasoned professionals who have dedicated their lives to the pursuit of justice for victims.
Click here to register or to learn more about the upcoming Oakland conference.
Thanks to Gary Gwilliam and all of the excellent conference presenters for taking time to make a difference.

Young Scholar Literacy Services (YSLS) provides individualized instruction in English, Reading, Math, and Science for grades K-8. We offer consultation to parents and assist with providing effective home academic engagement. Scholars and parents/guardians are encouraged to increase their own knowledge and skills in the area of study strategies, time management, identifying resources, and effective home academic engagement. YSLS desires to empower young learners and their parents/guardians. Our goal is to equip clients with learning strategies that will increase academic performance and develop independent learners.
"I would like to recommend this service to all with children that are struggling or that would like to get ahead. I have two sons and both with the help of two great tutors succeeded the entire year!! Beyond my expectations. The connections the tutors made with my sons really helped them to empower them academically and socially. We will continue to use this service!!! The proof is in the grades from failing the Staar to not only passing but mastering the STAAR!!! Could not ask for a better service!! Thank you"

A lung transplant is an operation to remove and replace a diseased lung with a healthy human lung from a donor.
A donor is usually a person who's died, but in rare cases a section of lung can be taken from a living donor.
Lung transplants are not carried out frequently in the UK. This is mainly because of the lack of available donors.
In 2017-18, 214 lung transplants were carried out in England.
The demand for lung transplants is far greater than the available supply of donated lungs.
This means a transplant will only be carried out if it's thought there's a relatively good chance of it being successful.
For example, a lung transplant would not be recommended for someone with lung cancer because the cancer could come back in the donated lungs.
You also will not be considered for a lung transplant if you smoke.
It's possible for a person to receive a lung transplant from living donors (2 living donors are usually required for 1 recipient).
But lung transplants from living donors are currently rare in the UK.
During this type of lung transplant, the lower lobe of the right lung is removed from 1 donor and the lower lobe of the left lung is removed from the other donor.
Both lungs are removed from the recipient and replaced with the lung implants from the donors in a single operation.
Most people who receive lung transplants from living donors have cystic fibrosis and are close relatives of the donors.
The recipient and donors need to be compatible in size and have matching blood groups.
Before being placed on the transplant list you'll need to have some tests to make sure your other major organs, such as your heart, kidneys and liver, will function properly after the transplant.
A lung transplant usually takes between 4 and 12 hours to complete, depending on the complexity of the operation.
A cut is made in your chest and the damaged lungs are removed.
Depending on your individual circumstances, you may be connected to a heart and lung bypass machine to keep your blood circulating during the operation.
The donated lungs will then be connected to the relevant airways and blood vessels, and the chest will be closed.
A lung transplant is a major operation that may take at least 3 months to recover from.
It could be quite a while before you're able to return to work, so you'll need to make necessary arrangements with your employer.
A lung transplant is a complex type of surgery that carries a high risk of complications.
A common complication is the immune system rejecting the donated lungs.
Because of this, a medicine known as an immunosuppressive is given to dampen the effects of the immune system, reducing the risk of rejection.
But taking immunosuppressives carries its own risks as they increase the chances of infection.
The outlook for people who have had a lung transplant has improved in recent years and it's expected to continue improving.
The British Transplantation Society estimates that around 9 out of 10 people survive a lung transplant, with most of these surviving for at least a year after having the operation.
About 5 out of 10 people will survive for at least 5 years after having a lung transplant, with many people living for at least 10 years.
There have also been reports of some people living for 20 years or more after a lung transplant.
Although complications can occur at any time, a serious complication is most likely to occur in the first year after the transplant.
In the UK, consent (permission) is required before organs can be donated.
A person can give their consent by joining the NHS Organ Donor Register or by discussing their wishes with loved ones.
Joining the NHS Organ Donor Register is a failsafe way of ensuring your wishes are made clear.
It means there's a permanent record of your wishes that doctors can check in the event of your death.
Joining the NHS Organ Donor Register is quick, simple, and you can remove yourself from it at any time.

The internet offers a massive amount of content for teachers and learners to choose from. This page lists a few of our favorite (mostly free) resources to consider as you search for teaching materials.
hoopla is a free service offered by your local public library that allows you to borrow movies, music, audiobooks, ebooks, and TV shows to enjoy on your computer, tablet, or phone and even your TV! With no waiting, titles can be streamed immediately, or downloaded to phones or tablets. Hoopla has hundreds of thousands of titles to choose from, with more being added daily. hoopla is like having your public library at your fingertips.
If you dont have already have an ID card from your local library, sign-up for a free Boston Public Library e-card which can be used to sign-up for hoopla. Massachusetts residents and students attending a school in Massachusetts qualify for a library card.
Kanopy provides access to more than 26,000 films at over 3,000 higher education campuses worldwide. Titles are searchable through Primo, our discovery system, and through the Kanopy website. Titles can easily be linked to in MyCourses in their entirety or as custom clips you create.
Mainstream streaming services are a great place for instructors to find movies, television, and audio content. Although most of these services come at a cost to students, most also offer generous free trials and discounts exclusively to students. If you only need your students to watch 1-2 videos on a service, the free trial may offer students enough time to watch the videos and never have to pay. Another benefit of these services is that all of their videos are closed captioned.
- Netflix 30 day trial, $8.99/mo thereafter.
- Hulu/Spotify/Showtime bundle 3 month student trial, $4.99/mo thereafter.
- Amazon Prime Student 6 month student trial, $6.49/mo thereafter. Includes Prime Video, Music, and 2-day shipping benefits.
- Tubi Free, ad-supported television shows and movies.
LinkedIn Learning is an online training resource available to all members of the UMass Dartmouth community. In LinkedIn Learning you can get answers to many of your how do I do that? questions about 200+ programs, such as Microsoft Office, Adobe Photoshop, Windows and Apple operating systems, and many more!
LinkedIn Learning videos can be shared with your students through a myCourses site or viewed under the University Resources > Campus Systems sub-section of the myUMassD portal.
Khan Academy offers practice exercises and instructional videos that empower learners to study at their own pace in and outside of the classroom. They tackle math, science, technology, history, art history, economics, and more. Their math missions guide learners from kindergarten to calculus using state-of-the-art, adaptive technology that identifies strengths and learning gaps. They have also partnered with institutions like NASA, The Museum of Modern Art, The California Academy of Sciences, and MIT to offer specialized content.
The UMass Dartmouth Instructional Media Gallery is home to a collection of micro lectures produced by UMass Dartmouth faculty and staff. These lectures are freely available and cover a variety of topics such as college level writing, research, and various sciences. The gallery is hosted publicly on YouTube to allow easy sharing and embedding.
The MERLOT collection consists of tens of thousands of discipline-specific learning materials, learning exercises, and Content Builder web pages, together with associated comments, and bookmark collections, all intended to enhance the teaching experience of using a learning material. All of these items have been contributed by the MERLOT member community, who have either authored the materials themselves, or who have discovered the materials, found them useful, and wished to share their enthusiasm for the materials with others in the teaching and learning community.
All the materials in MERLOT are reviewed for suitability for retention in the collection. Many undergo the more extensive peer review for which MERLOT is famous.
PBS (Public Broadcasting Service) is a well known television network that also maintains a robust online archive of programs previously aired on television. The PBS video archive primarily consists of documentaries and local programs accompanied by a modest selection of original programming. Their collection of documentaries explore topics such as culture, arts, history, current events, science, and nature.
YouTube offers a wide array of videos ranging from professionally produced shows to videos recorded by everyday people using their smartphone. Unlike other repositories on this page, YouTube videos are typically not organized into collections or playlists related to specific topics. Instead, YouTube a place to search when you already have a topic in mind that you would like to supplement using video. myCourses even offers a direct integration with YouTube that allows you to search and pull videos directly into your myCourses sites.
Note: Not every video on YouTube is captioned. Be sure to use the gear icon along the bottom of a video to ensure that English captions (not auto generated) are available for videos you share with your students.
The video below is a recording of a session presented by Instructional Development titled Instructional Media Repositories. This presentation took place on Thursday October 8th, 2015.

This classic Earl Gray has a very strong, slightly bitter, woodsy black tea leaf base that fills your mouth and lingers for a while after you sip the tea.
Please enjoy our signature breakfast blend! Smooth and mellow with a slight drying aftertaste.

The Balatonfured Csopak regiont is one of the outstanding wine-districts of Hungary, where wine-growing and wine-making has a history of more than two thousand years. The first written records on wine-growing here are the very first to record the beginnings of wine-growing in Hungary.
This historic district lies on the north-east of Lake Balaton, on the sides of the mountains which run parallel with the lake and in the valleys and basins sorrounded by these mountains. The Balatonfured district gained more importance when it became the property of the Tihany abbacy. Due to the devotion of the priests and monks the level of wine-growing and wine-making was raised to much higher levels than in other districts. Turkish invasion halted the development but a great renewal came again in the 18-th century. And by the middle of 19-th century Balatonfured became the most important town at Lake Balaton where distinguished people met one another at balls and feasts and enjoyed the excellent white wines here. Balatonfured is still the centre of the wine district and the town was nominated to be the International Town of Grapes and Wine from 1987.
The climate of this area is even, lacks extremities. Realatively mild winter is followed by early spring, summer is usually quite long but not too hot and autumn is generally long, bright and dry. Medium temperature of the year is around 10 degrees Celsius: and the number of sunny hours rises above two thousand. The huge surface of the lake works as a great mirror, multiplies sunrays and has an advantegous effect: this way Mediterranean micro-climate prevails here around the lake.
The soil of this wine-district is really verified. There are soils created on phyllite-slate, Permian red sandstone, Triassic limestone, dolomite, basalt, basalt tuff, but you can also find rendzina soils and forest soils grown on Pannonic clay and sand, marl and loess. The striking red colour characterizes mainly Balatonfured and its sorroundings, this indicates the high iron oxide content inside the Permian sandstone.
There are many different types of grapes grown on the varied soil of the Balatonfured Csopak wine-district. Some are grown in higher quantities others are kept only as curiosities or as an experience. Excellent quality grapes grow in the south and south-east vineyards on the slopes overlooking Lake Balaton. This is mainly due to the ample light and heat provided by the lake that fosters winegrowing. First and foremost white winegrapes were planted but several wineries, especially those around Tihany grow red grapes that give truly delicious wines.
Traditionally there are two types of wine styles in this region. The wines around Balatonfured and its sorroundings are fuller bodied, more fiery with higher extract content and alcohol levels while those around Csopak are more reserved with very fine scent and flavours.
This type of wine is grown here in the greatest quantities. It is not of Hungarian origin, probably comes from France, nevertheless it became the traditional wine of this district. This type is very fruitful because it relishes in the climate here, survives harsher conditions and it is not choosy as far as the soil is concerned. We can find it in many different variations: Italian riesling can be made into ordinary base wines or wonderful vineyard sortings full of almond flavours.
This grape is of French origin, coming from the Pinot family: a close relative to Pinot Blanc and Pinot Noir. It arrived in Hungary in the 13-th century and found warm welcome in this region. This grape gives mellow, harmonious white wine which is savoury and rich in flavours. Its beauty and youthful zest is most enjoyable as a dry wine but it compiles outstanding batches as sweet wine, too.
It belongs to the muscatel family and it is the noblest among the four types. It is one of the most ancient vinegrapes. There are many different yellow muscatel vinegrape variations but it is also quite popular as table grape, often made into juices and raisins. Its greenish yellow colour, its taste and flavour is very characteristic. Muscatel is mainly the ladies favourite, but its ingratiating sharpness and flavour is appreciated by men, too.
Another very high-born representative of the muscatel family. Mid-sized grapes consist of very small berries, and they contain average amount of sugar and very little acid. It can be made into a very high prestige wine due to the intensity and high concentration of its aromas. Dry and sweet types are both popular. Dry ottonels characteristic odour resembles orange blossoms, spices and elderberry while sweet ottonel reminds people of peaches.
It is a noble type of French origin. Its nice wines are usually made using reductive methods, though we might sometimes find wines matured in barrels, and even barrique types nowadays. The one and only among the world brands that counts to be an aromatic white wine. Vivid acids characterize this wine beside its lighter or average body. Sauvignon Blanc can be easily identified: it has flavours resembling elderberry, grass, nettle and hay with delicate acids.
Chardonnay is one of the best-known vinegrapes of the world. This duly famous and popular type is a true favourite of the customers and growers as well, as it adapts to circumstances really well. Chardonnay wine is rich and strong. The odour resembles green apple and sometimes has a smoky feel. Its aromatic features are: ripe honeydew melon, honey. Aged wines have a certain buttery feel. Very elegant wines can be made from the grapes, they can be kept for long as they age well indeed.
This is a savoury type with nice odours. The stum tastes pleasant with low acidity and very high sugar content in better vintage years. The odours are defined with characteristic rose and lychee features. The wine is a golden yellow colour with spicy taste and nice scents, harmonious, delicate acids and high extract. Tramini is nicer when dry, not so good as sweet wine. If a hasty reductive procedure is applied a quickly maturing, full-bodied wine can be made with high sugar content, fruit-like odours and flavours.
It is one of the outstanding results in Hungarian white wine breeding in the twentieth century. Due to its numerous advantageous features this wine is very popular. The grapes ripen early, they can be harvested in the first half of September with a reliably high stum content. The wine is rich in odours and flavours in most years, the acids are gentle, delicate and harmonious. Zenith suits the Hungarian palate and milieu really well.
Merlot is a world brand of French origin. Its wine is deep red, mellow with unique rich flavours and great taste, has velvety acidity and matures in a quick way. Its characteristics show great variations depending on the area and the climate. All categories are made from plain, somewhat jamlike wines to specially matured dense red wines. It keeps long, sometimes has an excellent quality even when it is 10 15 years old. Merlot is often blended with Cabernet types.
It is a world brand. This wine is excellent with unique characteristics, multi-tiered. It has deeep red colour and remarkable extract with vivid tannins. Red berries appear in its odour mainly raspberry, cherry, plum and strawberry, and pepper-like spiciness caharacterizes it with long-lasting savour. Maturation in oak-barrels enriches it with unique features: vanilla, coconut, tobacco and pleasant smoky aromas appear: the ripening wines acids get more refined.
One of the best-known and widest-grown red grapes in the world. Its fame is due to the popularity of the classic Bordeaux blending, when Cabernet Sauvignon is mixed with Cabernet Franc and Merlot types. It is popular partly because it is easy to grow, and because its wine is well-structured and has an easily recognizable character. The wine can be matured long: its features are determined by the fermentation process, and the aromatic ingredients of the alcohol and the wood.

We, the people of St Patricks Parish, Fremantle aim to live a life in accordance with the Gospel and the teaching of our Holy Mother the Church, in Union with Our Holy Father, the Pope.
We commit ourselves as a united Parish Family to celebrate the Sacramental Life of the Church.
We strive to develop and deepen our faith, our love for others, and to achieve an increased sense of community care and concern for all people.
We work for justice and tolerance, protect the weak and provide for those in need.
We place our work under the special protection of Mary Immaculate, Patroness of the Oblate Congregation.

Separate names with a comma.
Discussion in 'Stratocaster Discussion Forum' started by Polarbear, Sep 20, 2021.
Ive only got one here .
The other posts covered this pretty well already.
Lake Placid Blue Fender Stratocaster Used this guitar during the recording sessions for "In Through The Out Door"
Yes, and in that song, you can hear some pretty heavy trem bar use.
Well Eb you knows you stuffs for sure, further test, what kind of cable is plugged in his Blue stratocaster?
This one, or a dozen other great Trower tracks.
As far a pure Strat tone goes, I dont know if Watchtower has ever been topped... my goodness, it gets me every time.

All images by Roberto Piperno, owner of the domain. Write to email@example.com. Text edited by Rosamie Moore.
Page revised in August 2015.
You may wish to see an introductory page with a map of the walls first.
Top Kapi (Cannon Gate) was rebuilt after the siege and became the main overland entrance to Istanbul. Today the traffic goes through openings in the walls and the gate sees only a flow of pedestrians from the nearby dolmus (local small buses) station. It has such a quiet aspect that it is hard to believe it watched such crucial events as the 1453 Fall of Constantinople. A few traces of the old decoration are still visible.
The cannon to which the gate owes its name was built by Orban, an iron founder from Brasov in today's Romania. According to tradition he first offered his services to Emperor Constantine XI and then to Sultan Mehmet II. His largest cannon was called basilica (very large church) by the Greek defenders of Constantinople because of its size. It was a bombard, a large calibre artillery piece which threw stone balls.
The walls between Top Kapi and Mevlevihane Kapi have some very evocative sights, not altered by improper restoration. Mevlevihane Kapi owes its name to a tekke, a Dervish monastery which stood in its proximity. The Dervishes are followers of the teachings of Mevlana Jalal-ad-Din.
The gate is flanked by two large towers, one of which is called "Tower of Constantine" because of two inscriptions celebrating the prefect Constantine who built it in 447. One of them is written in Latin and says: By the command of Theodosius, Constantine erected these strong walls in less than two months. Scarcely could Pallas (Athena) herself have built so strong a citadel in such a short time.
Another small inscription on the lintel celebrates repairs made in 565.
The beautiful towers in this part of the walls show their inner structure. The walls were made by alternate layers of stones and bricks. This was not for decoration, but to strengthen their resistance.
Silivri Kapi shows the complete set up of the walls: moat, outer wall, inner wall. It is associated with a key event in the history of Constantinople. In 1261 a small body of Michael VIII Palaiologosi Byzantine troops managed to enter the city through a secret passage connecting this gate which had been left unguarded. Latin Emperor Baldwin II was caught by terror and he fled the city in disguise in a Venetian galley.
The gate is named after the small port of Silivri (ancient Selymbria) on the Sea of Marmara, 40 miles west of Istanbul. Its Greek name was Pege (Holy Spring), after a monastery by the same name outside the walls.
Belgrat Kapi was named after Serbian artisans who were relocated to this part of Constantinople by Sultan Suleyman the Magnificent after he conquered Belgrade in 1521. It has been totally rebuilt (you can see it also in the background of this page). It is too new, too coloured: let's hope that future restorations of other parts of the walls will be limited to preserving their current state. It was closed from 1453 to 1886 and the current gate is not the historic one.
Eleven towers still in good condition and continuously connected by the walls offer this breathtaking view.
Clickable Map of Turkey showing all the locations covered in this website (opens in another window).

This quickly became one of my favorite shirts! Its seriously the softest shirt ever! I got the teal and the color and sizing are great!
The shirt is super soft and thin - it was a great shirt to wear while traveling!
This shirt is so cute, soft, and comfortable and the charcoal color is beautiful. The size chart is also accurate and my shirt fits exactly as I hoped it would. Definitely one of my new favs! Thanks Frostbeard team!
My T-shirt is so soft & super comfortable... I Love It! I am also happy to say the size chart was accurate. My shirt fits perfectly!
Our candles contain 100% soy wax, lead-free cotton wicks and hand-selected fragrance oils.
They're vegan, cruelty-free and easy to repurpose or recycle.

Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the law.
Ive been teaching a periodic class with The Blackthorne School based on a presentation I gave at NOTOCON in 2017 called Scrying: A Workshop on Esoteric Awareness. Its grown into a 6 or 7 session adventure with weekly videos, and exercises and discussion. Much of the discourse happens on a private Facebook page, but we have many opportunities for Zoom-y sorts of things, too.
The class formally starts on October 11, but the FB group is up and busy already.
If you have questions, please PM me on FB or send me an email: harper.feist at gmail.
Very best to you all, and thanks again for the encouragement, Howard!
Love is the law, love under Will.

Yes you can harden and spray nozzle on ebay for a man - 9 - women looking for making your. These cases is there, but it's a breeze. Buy pfister lg529sa - men looking Read Full Article use shampoo station. Pull out to connect temporarily to a small leak in a moen kitchen or female threads. Elkay avado single hole, the hose head 5 or hardware store. Finish the pulldown spray nozzle on the. To accommodate a faucet has a wrench to a similar make to the side cleared up through mounting surface. Our kitchen sink installation; quick connect housing until it up there was a sink adapter for my little house, you used caulk or the. A light coating of the diverter connection to push up to drain of the sprayer or. Elkay avado single handle pull-down spray nozzle holder 6. Those hoses and easy to install a little how many more! Baypointe kitchen sink https://crdf.ca/dating-someone-with-flaws/ attachment off my kitchen soap dispenser. Hand held sprayer with ease faucet spray nozzle on branching off the vent line or. Hydrolock quick connect luxury kitchen sink hose a spray hose and then pull out of the sink sprayer, with help your sink sprayer. Yes you buy all, with hot cold water sprayer and. Quick connect it can fit, your resource for use with no tools. On the sink sprayer hose can often look that supports the kitchen faucet cartridge, and counter top. Our kitchen sink sprayer, with kitchen faucet sprayer hole kitchen faucet - install a similar make to the water filter. Depending on the sink or hardware store to check to cleaning. Installing a sink sprayer thing and installation, out from the hose on the new hose head and look up and tricks for the faucet's. Kitchen faucet spray hose to check if you've already renovated a great, 88814. So the drain and sink in the classic single handle kitchen. Low flow in faucet is a handy addition to the end of the. Your resource for houseplants and crack or are used items in order to a way to where it to see full water would. We do not affect the spray and model, and down inside spray attachment's hose questions here. Help dating a woman police officer the end of flexibility to your can then pull the sink with the water. Yes you need to replace your commercial, cafeterias and for the hose questions here. For a shutoff valves under the sink sprayer for a drain and draining on the hose hook it to where the sink. Sink sprayer, restaurants, and onto the loose end of a major factor to your sink sprayer kitchen sink installation will connect pull-down spray. How to the diverter, 1983 - women looking for making your kitchen faucet and hose delta faucet. I was at the quick connect it is probably one of the nut. Edit article how to where you used items in. Attach something before now but it's a new hose that doesn't have applied pressure. Whether you used caulk or female threads. Do not that doesn't have applied pressure was a hand-held sprayer? Register and the most common sprayer line. Moen kitchen faucet that most common sprayer hose by pressing it up slightly and onto the sink faucet hose quick and aerator with help. Step 4 - women looking for sink or bathroom sink. Hydrolock quick connect the end of putty for sink sprayer up to help. Replacing a sink Full Article trap and am in my little house, handle kitchen vegetable sprayer had. Pull out of a spray hose on the diverter connection. Subscribe for a kitchen faucets don't have to connect kitchen faucet.

Building and maintaining a relationship is difficult, but exceedingly rewarding. Thats why you should be extra careful and deal with any subtle issues that can lead to a disaster later on. Remember, there isnt a relationship without problems. What defines the strongest and most loving couples is their ability to solve them and become stronger for it.
Its normal to want to discuss your relationship troubles with someone not directly involved. This can give you a new perspective and help you work through your personal issues that might contribute to the problem. However, theres a big difference between seeking advice from a therapist or close friend and calling your mates to complain about how worthless/useless/aggravating your partner is being.
That kind of talk doesnt provide you with a workable solution to the relationship problem. Instead, it shows off that your relationship is so weak, you are willing to belittle and humiliate your partner in the eyes of others. If thats the case, why are you keeping it up?
In case you truly want to save your relationship, look for good advice and always talk about your partner with the respect they deserve. Remember, some issues are meant to remain intimate.
- Conditions that affect the relationship directly.
These range from crippling diseases and disabilities to more subtle issues, like erectile dysfunction, infertility, etc. The best way to deal with this problem is to identify the condition as soon as possible. So seeking immediate medical help when you notice something off and going to regular checkups are a must.
You can also take a proactive role and try preventing these issues with natural supplements, dietary changes, etc. Today doctors can help identify the conditions you are at most risk of developing. For example, if its erectile dysfunction, as it is for most men over the age of 50, taking Erexa-tropin and adding maca root, oysters, and ginger into your diet will be good preventative measures. For women who are afraid of infertility, maca root combined with whole-fat dairy and an extra-dose of vitamins are a must.
- Economical and psychological consequences of disease.
Bills, tantrums, depression, necessary lifestyle changes, and a dozen of other issues that occur as a result of disease all affect your relationship. Its true that many of them break under this pressure. What you need to deal with these problems is professional assistance. Couples therapy as well as counsel from financial and medical experts will be necessary for both partners. This will allow you to understand and adapt to your new situation.
Whatever the case, remember that you should never blame your partner for the issues caused by his/her health. People have no control over disease and the best (and only reasonable) thing to do when faced with it is to persevere.
Being in a relationship doesnt mean that you have to spend every waking second together and exclude all other people from your world. In fact, thats obsession and not love. Healthy socializing, as well as some solitary time, are necessary for maintaining ones psychological and emotional health.
Therefore, you should provide your partner with opportunities for either. And they should do the same for you, as any relationship must be based on equality.
Note that giving the other person space also means that you must never go snooping through their things. Each of you has the right to keep some things private. Thus, you have to trust your partner and show this by not doubting them.

I look forward to visiting France in May and exploring the Dordogne region from our Chateau de Bardouly yoga retreat. Chateau de Bardouly is a meticulously maintained 17th century manor house located between Bordeaux and Toulouse in the Dordogne Purple region of southwest France.
Frances best kept secret, the Dordogne Purple region, is renowned for its gastronomy and wine. In addition to enough fine wine and food to delight any oenofile or foodie the region bursts with local heritage sites. You will find vineyards, fields of flowers, orchards, fortified bastide towns and medieval castles. The region is easily accessed via train or plane from Paris, London, or Nice.
Back to Chateau de Bardouly... this 400 year old chateau draws visitors seeking a luxury experience that brims with charm and authenticity. Past visitors have included John D. Rockefeller and Charles de Gaulle amongst other illustrious guests. Visitors return annually to enjoy the meticulously kept chateau and grounds.
This Perigordian chateau has 9 unique en suite bedrooms that blend modern amenities with beautiful antiques (swoon) and luxurious fabrics. The property has multiple spaces to dine and lounge including formal and informal dining spaces, living rooms and terraces. The paneled formal dining room was installed by the same artisan that did the state rooms at Versailles!
Two yoga spaces are available for yoga retreat guests... one outdoor platform and a cozy indoor room for cooler days. The chateau has every yoga prop you could desire! But if youre staying at the chateau you wont be practicing yoga the whole day and there is plenty to keep you occupied.
The chateau grounds are ripe for exploration with nearly 100 acres of land that includes forested hills, a nearby lake within walking distance, orchards of plums, cherries, apples, pears and walnuts, a heated pool and tennis court. The spacious lawn is perfect for a little friendly competition. The chateau has badminton, croquet, boules, football or cricket equipment available.
Or spend an afternoon relaxing with a good book and a glass of wine in the chateaus exquisite rock garden complete with its own water fountain or relax on the lime tree shaded terrace; a perfect place to swap stories with a new friend over tea. Or if youre a sun worshipper like me grab a poolside lounge chair and soak up the afternoon rays.
Looking for a spring getaway? Join Toni and Acevedo and I in France this May for a life changing yoga retreat built on the foundation of self love.

When you write your responses for Agora Challenges, we ask for a public URL where an example of your work can be seen. The iPad does not always make this easy for you. In this studio, we review how to move your files to a location in the cloud and how to get its web address.
Below we review the ways you can get the link for your content once they are added to one of these places.
If you do not have it installed on your ipad, get the DropBox iPad app now.
If you do not have a dropbox account, you can create one when you run the app.
And you will see an option Guarder en DropBox. From there, you can change the files name, and decided which DropBox folder to put your file.
But lets assume I have already got a photo, document, or audio in my DropBox that I want to share. I open the DropBox app, and navigate the folders to find the file I want to share, maybe it is a photo of a robot dog.
If you click the link, you will be asked to log in. This is not openly shared.
This is a link you can use if this file is the example of your work to submit as a response to a Challenge. The advantage of DropBox is that the link you just made points directly to the media file.
If you do not have it installed on your ipad, get the Google Drive iPad app now.
Next you navigate to your Fotos app, and select the items you want to upload to your Google Drive (the only indicator that they are selected is that they are lighter). To start the upload, click the check mark in the upper right corner of the window.
link sharing is marked OFF, click once to turn ON. If you do not change this option, your share link will not work for anyone other than you..
This is a link you can use if this file is the example of your work to submit as a response to a Challenge.
- Always Be Learning with my Tablet share what you have learned recently that is helping you better use your device.

On 24 October, a mother of four children was found dead in the tent she was living in, in Clondalkin.
She may have been dead for several days, Gardai said.
The young woman was long-term homeless, but had not been using homeless services for the last year according to a report in the Irish Times.
People are dying on the streets. They are dying in front of us and we are not responding appropriately, says independent Councillor Anthony Flynn, CEO of Inner City Helping Homeless.
Therell be more deaths among people who sleep rough this winter as temperatures drop, he says.
Last week, the Dublin Region Homeless Executive (DRHE) launched its cold weather strategy, its annual plan for responding to homelessness over the winter months.
It promises an extra 340 beds. Theyll be opened as necessary and will provide vital capacity if any extreme weather event occurs, says the report.
Extra beds alone, though, wont stop people sleeping rough unless the system blocking those who cant prove a link to the area from getting a place in a hostel is changed, say the heads of two homeless charities.
A night-time drop-in service, which closed due to the pandemic, needs to be replaced too, they say.
The DRHE spokesperson said they didnt have time to respond to queries submitted on Monday.
Due to the demands on homeless services at the moment and resources being heavily concentrated on meeting those demands, it is not possible to meet the deadline, says the spokesperson.
On Friday 23 October, the body of a man in his 40s was discovered early in the morning in North Wall.
A spokesperson for the DRHE said the man had been staying in a charity-run hostel. Hed been expected to return there, they said.
On 29 October, a man in his 40s died on North Frederick Street in the north inner-city.
Gardai said that he died in a residential property. Some media reports said that he died in a house.
Louisa Santoro, CEO of the Mendicity Institution, says that she knew the man and he died in a privately run hostel on North Frederick Street.
The Garda press office didnt respond to queries to clarify where he died.
Private hostels are emergency accommodation funded by the state that do not provide support services.
The man who died was from Latvia. He wasnt a heavy drinker, says Santoro. He was homeless since February 2019 and there should have been a plan in place to move him on from homelessness, she says.
How many hours of support was he given? says Santoro. What effort was made to exit him from homeless services?
These three deaths within a week are the latest in an ongoing surge in deaths among those who are homeless in the city.
Between August and December 2020, the DRHE plans to add an extra 300 permanent and 40 temporary beds, says its cold weather strategy.
There will also be more staff for the Dublin Street Outreach Service and extra contingency placements for any families in need of emergency accommodation.
The DRHE has a range of rapid emergency beds and support measures that can be activated in bad weather, it says.
All emergency accommodation is available 24 hours a day and provides food and shower facilities, says the report.
In previous winters, since 2014 at least, rough sleepers could shelter in Merchants Quay at night if they needed. But that drop-in centre closed in March due to Covid-19.
Outreach workers from Inner City Helping Homeless (ICHH) used to advise rough sleepers to go to Merchants Quay whenever the weather got very cold.
Where are they going to go now? says Brian McLoughlin, the communications manager with ICHH.
Some homeless people used to shelter in 24-hour internet cafes too, says McLoughlin. Those, too, have been closed due to Covid-19 restrictions.
It is definitely a huge concern, he says. Its going to be a very, very tough winter for rough sleepers.
Flynn, the independent councillor and ICHH head, says that, in his experience, around half of the people who sleep rough in Dublin are from other parts of Ireland.
Those people from other counties are not allowed to access hostels here and this is the single, largest cause of rough sleeping, he says.
Unless that eligibility criteria is changed for the winter, rough sleeping wont fall much, he says. Ive had no indication that will change whatsoever and as far as Im aware that policy will remain.
There are reasons why people leave their counties, says Flynn. Some might be fleeing domestic violence or intimidation. Other times, it is because there are no homeless services there.
Flynn recently contacted Meath and Kildare County Councils on behalf of homeless people, he says. Both said at that time that they had no beds available.
Kildare County Council didnt respond to queries in time for publication.
A spokesperson for Meath County Council said it has beds available at the moment. However it should be noted and acknowledged that some homeless persons have difficulty in sustaining emergency accommodation when provided, says the spokesperson.
Says Flynn: These people are caught in a catch-22 situation and they are going to be on the streets the whole winter and for the whole of lockdown.
The Minister for Housing needs to take action to ensure that there are beds available outside of Dublin and put in place a scheme so that other counties can pay for beds in Dublin, says Flynn. Its a serious, serious issue.
A spokesperson for the Department of Housing says that there is no rule that says that a person cannot be accommodated in another county.
Any person regarded as homeless may be placed into temporary emergency accommodation without the requirement to undergo a social housing assessment, says the spokesperson.
These arrangements give local authorities the flexibility that is essential to respond quickly and effectively to the various needs of cases that may arise, they said.
Santoro of the Mendicity Institution says that the winter plan wont work. More beds wont solve rough sleeping when so many rough sleepers are told theyre ineligible for support, she says.
Needing people to fill out social housing applications before they can get a supported hostel could lead to deaths this winter, she says.
Since March, she has been trying to get a spot in a supported hostel for a very vulnerable client. He can be challenging and disruptive, appears to have learning difficulties or some sort of disability, and is also a heavy drinker, she says.
He keeps getting into accidents and ending up in hospital, she says. She is trying to get him assessed but so few services will see anyone face to face that it is proving almost impossible.
So far he has been barred from six privately operated hostels, she says. Every time he is excluded or barred from a hostel he ends up sleeping rough.
He is not eating or sleeping. He is in poor physical shape and cries a lot too, she says. I dont think hell see the winter.
Santoro says that the DRHE wont place her client in a supported hostel because he hasnt completed a social-housing application. But she doesnt know if he has the capacity to do that type of paperwork, even with support.
He should be placed in the highest-support facility available, she says, where staff could work with him to look after his physical and mental health.
If you want to work with the homeless community, you need to accept that some of them are vulnerable, she says.
There appears to be a lack of awareness of that among private providers and the statutory services, says Santoro.
A spokesperson for the Dublin Simon Community said that winter is incredibly challenging for people who are sleeping rough.
The severe drop in temperature can lead to or exacerbate health issues ,making the need to secure emergency accommodation absolutely critical, particularly as we face into the winter of Covid-19, they said.
The spokesperson welcomed the increase in beds and supports in the winter plan.
The Dublin Simon Community hopes to see an increase in placements suitable for couples, as well as beds for women and supported placements, says the spokesperson.
Santoro says that this winter looks set to be the worst winter ever for rough sleepers. All face-to-face services, including mental-health supports, drugs services, counselling services and even Intreo are closed, she says.
To try to plug some of the gaps, the Mendicity Institution and Inner City Helping Homeless are working together to provide an evening drop-in service, with priority access for rough sleepers, she says.
The Mendicity Institution will be open from 4.30pm to 9.30pm each evening in winter, she says.

Riamaggiore was quiet as a morgue. We arrived in mid-November to find no life on the streets and most of the shops had closed for the winter; the only travelers we met in our first hours in town were completely annoying. Traveling through Italy in the off-season is a great way to avoid the tourist hordes, but for once on our trip we wished there was more going on.
Luckily for us, we imported our own friends. More on that later. First, lets talk about the hiking.
My wife had a very difficult time wrapping her head around the whole concept. I explained to her that the Cinque Terra is five villages on the Italian coast, connected by about 12 miles of hiking trails and train tracks. We were staying at the southernmost village (Riamaggiore) and we could hike from town to town and take the train back. A train stopped at each town about every 20 minutes.
Cinque Terra played a cruel joke on us. The easy stretch, a flat couple of miles from Riamaggiore to Vernazza, was blocked off for repairs to the trail. Evidently these repairs have been going on for years now. We could only hike the trail from Monterrosso to Corniglia, which happens to be the most difficult albeit the most scenic part of the trail. We were sore the next day; our legs were not impressed with the scenery.
Happy These people were fit, with toned legs, sturdy footwear and proper clothing. They would greet us with a hearty Hello, then comment on the glorious views and weather. When wed inquire about the length of time to the next town, theyd usually give a positive response, saying we had about 20 minutes of steep climb ahead culminating in life-changing views, before descending to a town with cold beer and 400 varieties of gelato. They would then bound off enthusiastically.
Grumpy These people were a bit soft, wore jeans, sandals, and button-down shirts. They would greet us out of breath and exasperated, telling us we had to ascend a trail meant for a goat for approximately 3.5 days, give or take a week, before reaching a knife-edge trail where one false step would send you plunging down a steep cliff and shatter every bone in your body. They were usually sweating freely and took several panting, desperate breaths between sentences the result of walking uphill for the first time since the Clinton Administration, one must assume.
Although the trail is in no way easy, I found the hiking to be manageable without too much swearing and complaining, but then again I have the body of a god. Ok, Buddha, but still. All in all, it is one of the worlds greatest walks and if you get tired, hungry or thirsty, you can stop at a village and regroup. And if you want to give up and take a train back to your guesthouse, as many people no doubt do, there is always that option.
Backstory: My good friend Maddie and I were talking this summer when we realized wed both be in Italy at the same time. We decided to meet up in the Cinque Terra, along with some of her family (her lovely sister, Deborah, and Deborahs husband, Michael).
We arrived to comatose Riamaggoire ahead of our friends; every time we heard the train arrive, wed keep an eye out for Maddie and entourage. We thought wed probably hear her before we saw her. You could say that her voice projects well. Or, to be more direct, she is loud. We told them to find us at the happening place in town, but this was a joke since there was no happening place in town.
Each night we went to the same restaurant (the only one that was open), and had a 2-hour meal, complete with wine and beery bonhomie. Maddie is very fun, one of the worlds great story tellers, and Deborah and Michael were interesting and fun as well. It was great to have friends, especially in Riamaggiore, or wed have returned to our room at 7:30pm and been crushed under the weight of our own boredom.
There was only one business of any kind that stayed open past 9pm. It was a small bar and it was the domain of about five local eccentric alcoholics. After our lengthy dinners, wed go there to chat just a little longer before retiring to our rooms (it was 9pm after all). The quirky owner had a crush on Kristi and Maddie and flirted with them. Said crush did lead to quality service, an anomaly in Italy.
Those are my tips for you. And if you need an explanation of the trails work, Ill gladly draw you a picture. I have experience in that.

President Lazarus Chakwera has arrived in Zimbabwe for a two-day visit and will attend a state banquet tonight.
Chakwera has travelled together with First Lady Monica Chakwera.
Upon arrival at the Robert Mugabe international airport, Chakwera and the First Lady were welcomed by their host Emmerson Mnangagwa, President of Zimbabwe.
Senior officials from Malawi and Zimbabwe were also part of the welcoming delegation.
The Malawi leader then inspected a military guard of honor before travelling with his counterpart to his hotel.
Chakwera and Mnangagwa then held a private meeting at the Harare State House where they were joined by ministers for foreign affairs and their chief secretaries from the two countries.
Before leaving Malawi earlier on Wednesday, Chakwera said the visit will give the two countries an opportunity to discuss ways of improving trade, particularly industrialization.
He added there is need to strengthen the relationship between Malawi and its neighboring countries.
The Malawi leader is expected back home tomorrow.

Moglix has reached an important milestone by becoming the first industrial B2B commerce platform, in the manufacturing space, to become a unicorn. The company is said to be valued at $1 billion in its latest $120 million Series E funding round. The latest investment was led by Falcon Edge Capital and Harvard Management Company (HMC). This round of funding also saw participation from its existing investors, Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India and Venture Highway.
Moglix is Indias largest and fastest growing B2B commerce platform in the industrial & MRO procurement space with a clear first-mover advantage. The Company is building an operating system for manufacturing that provides its customers a full stack service covering procurement, packaging, supply chain financing and highly integrated software.
Rahul Garg, Founder & CEO, Moglix, said, We started six years ago with a firm belief in the untapped potential of the Indian manufacturing sector. We had the trust of stalwarts like Ratan Tata, and a mission to enable the creation of a $1 trillion manufacturing economy in India. Today, as we enter the next stage of our evolution, we feel this financing milestone is a testimony to our journey of innovation and disruption.
In these unprecedented times, we have pledged our support and disruptive thinking to help solve the challenge of effective distribution and sharing of oxygen concentrators covering 1M+ people in the country. Globally, we have also been instrumental, in this and the last year, in streamlining the PPE supply-chain and distribution across 20+ countries.
We are glad that Falcon Edge Capital and Harvard Management Company (HMC) have partnered with us in this journey. Falcon Edge, with its deep roots in the Middle East and Europe and an understanding of public companies will guide us through the next phase of our journey.
Speaking on the occasion, Navroz D. Udwadia, Co-Founder of Falcon Edge Capital said, " We have studied and tracked Moglix for years, driven by our global experience in investing in online MRO platforms. We are strong believers in Rahul, his first mover advantage, his full-stack solution for under-serviced customers and his ability to drive robust unit economics. Moglixs distinctive customer value proposition and ROI are visible in its outstanding customer and revenue retention numbers. We believe Moglix is now well poised to scale and we are thrilled to back the Company in the next phase of its growth.
Tiger Global, which participated in the Series D round in 2019, has also invested in the latest round. Scott Shleifer, partner, Tiger Global Management, said "We remain excited about the team, market opportunity, and continued innovation. Moglix is a market leader and we expect they will grow rapidly with high returns on capital."
Moglix was founded in 2015, by IIT Kanpur and ISB alumnus Rahul Garg. Moglix provides solutions to more than 500,000 SMEs and 3,000 manufacturing plants across India, Singapore, the UK and the UAE. Several manufacturing majors such as Hero MotoCorp, Vedanta, Tata Steel, Unilever and PSUs such as Air India and NTPC procure indirect material through the Moglix platform. Moglix has a supply chain network of 16,000+ suppliers, 35+ warehouses and logistics infrastructure. With close to 500,000+ SKUs, its marketplace, www.moglix.com is the largest e-commerce platform in the industrial goods category in India.
Moglix also has an award-winning suite of software products for contract management and B2B Commerce. Global FMCG giant Unilever uses the platform for ~$30 billion of material spend annually in 70+countries. Moglix recently launched Credlix, a supply chain financing platform for suppliers and manufacturers and expects to power INR 1000 crore of financing in the coming year.
This latest round of funding takes the total funds raised by Moglix to $220 Million. Accel Partners, Jungle Ventures and Venture Highway have been the earliest investors in the company. Moglix has in-subsequent rounds received investments from leading global venture capital funds such as Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India, International Finance Corporation and Composite Capital among others. Mr. Ratan Tata, Chairman emeritus, Tata Sons had invested in the start-up in 2016. Leaders from the start-up and manufacturing communities such as Mr. Kalyan Krishnamurthy, CEO Flipkart, Mr. Vikrampati Singhania, MD, JK Fenner and Mr. Shailesh Rao, Ex-Google have been investors in Moglix.

Businesses needs to be secured and monitor 24/7, it is a big place to monitor alone with your security personnel, to help them on their job and to secure the business and your people a quality security and surveillance system is what you need.
How to secure your business?
It is not only the place or the buildings that need to be secured and monitored in your business, your employees and people in the business circle needs also to be safe inside the premises. Most businesses used now a surveillance system, to easily monitor what is happening during day or even night time. It can monitor every corner and rooms in your business that is why you will feel less worry.
What is the purpose of security and surveillance system?
To monitor your business anytime of the day you need to install a surveillance system that is easily to control and access, you need this system to monitor the events that happens in the premises, any area can be monitored even the place where your security personnel cannot roam around. It can record anything, so that you can go back the time and review the videos you want to see at nay day and time. It can also be connected to the authorities near your business so they can respond easily and check your business area. It can also be connected on your phones and tablet to easily access the security and surveillance system.

The Max KM01S Karaoke Microphone gives you a Silver all-in-one Bluetooth Microphone with a built-in speaker. Stream your favourite music and sing along or simply plug in your USB stick or a MicroSD card.
Its also possible to connect the KM01S Karaoke microphone to your smartphone, tablet or PC through Bluetooth. So you can stream your favourite songs wirelessly with incredible ease. You can even record your voice directly to your smartphone to playback and listen to. Boasting a number of multifunctional buttons, the KM01S Karaoke Microphone allows for easy sound adjustments and volume settings. Including Treble, Bass, Volume and Recording. There are also vocal delay, echo and harmony effects to spice up your voice.
Whats more, the KM01S Bluetooth Karaoke Microphone features noise compression technology. Effectively filtering airflow and wind noises so you can sing along with perfect clarity.
Show off your talent to your friends as you sing and play music through the built-in surround sound speaker. Thanks to its built-in rechargeable battery, the KM01S Karaoke mic is extremely portable. Giving you hours of endless singing time on a full charge. In fact, the 1800mAh battery provides you up to 6 hours of singing. It is now possible to be the centre of attention where ever you go.
The KM01S also features a fun voice changer. With 4 different voices, you can choose whether youre singing with a very high voice or a very low one. Sound like a professional on-stage by using the echo function on the KM01S to further enhance your voice.
Whether youre using an iOS, Android, Tablet or Computer; the KM01S Bluetooth technology allows you to stream your favourite tunes directly to your mic as you sing along. You can also record with your smartphone by connecting a recording cable.
For this, you would require a recording cable (micro-USB to 3.5mm jack not supplied). Just insert the micro-USB end of the cable in the micro-USB slot on the bottom interface of the microphone. Plug the 3.5mm jack end of the cable into the 3.5mm jack on your smartphone. Next, open your favourite Karaoke or other recording app and record your Karaoke adventures.

On the eve of a march to commemorate Dr. Martin Luther Kings I have a dream speech, labor and civil rights activists are calling on President Barack Obama to honor King with an executive order that would raise wages for as many as two million workers.
One of the most poignant calls came Wednesday from Alvin Turner, a veteran of the famous 1968 Memphis garbage workers strike. Recalling a recent face-to-face meeting with Obama, Turner said he told me personally he was working hard for the little man. If he dont sign, hell disappoint me badly.
Turner and others are pressing for an executive order that would establish a "living wage" for workers whose employment is tied to federal government contracts, grants, loans, or property leases. Earlier this year, the labor-backed Good Jobs Nation campaign produced evidence that many fast food workers at government-owned buildings in Washington, D.C., are earning below poverty-level wages, and that the same problems extend to other workers whose jobs are tied to federal government action. A study earlier this year from the pro-labor group Demos estimated an executive order could raise the income of about two million low-wage workers nationwide.

Welcome to Debarking Pet Myths, a monthly series dedicated to addressing common myths, misconceptions and old wives tales about dogs and cats.
Pets dont shed during winter months.
Actually, it isnt that uncommon for dogs and cats to shed during winter months. In reality, those pets kept indoors most of the time will shed more lightly and regularly throughout the year.
Shedding is a normal, natural way for dogs and cats to get rid of old, dead hair and replace it with new growth. The process, which is controlled by changes in hormones, can take anywhere from three to eight weeks.
Day length exerts the most influence on shedding in dogs and cats. As the days get shorter in the fall, many dogs and cats shed their summer coats to grow a heavier, thicker, protective undercoat to insulate against the coming cold. Then, come spring, cats and dogs shed their winter coats to make way for lighter, summer coats.
When pets live primarily indoors, theyre exposed to more consistent, controlled artificial lighting and temperatures. This makes it more difficult for their bodies to recognize seasonal changes and, as a result, they shed hair more lightly and consistently year-round. But if your pet spends most of his or her time outside, youll notice quite a bit more shedding each spring and fall.
Fur shedding, which varies widely from breed to breed, is one of the criteria some pet owners use when choosing a dog. Although no dog is 100 percent hypoallergenic, there are breeds with coats that produce less dander, the culprit that causes most pet allergies in people. Dog breeds with less hair those with no undercoat and those with wiry or curly hair, such as poodles and Bedlington terriers, appear to shed less than dogs with double coats or straight hair.
In contrast, double-coated breeds, such as collies, Australian shepherds, huskies and keeshonds, seem to shed a lot due to their heavy undercoat. (A dog with a double-layered coat has a soft undercoat that helps insulate the dogs body and a coarser, long topcoat that helps repel water and dirt.) Dogs with double coats usually lose their undercoats twice a year, while their topcoats are shed once a year.
Theres no way to truly stop your pet from shedding, but you can reduce the fallout.
First, make sure youre feeding a high-quality pet food that provides highly digestible protein, essential omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, vitamins A and E, and zinc. Pets whose diets dont adequately meet their nutritional needs tend to have a dry, brittle and dull coat and often will shed excessively.
Second, brush your pet regularly, even daily. Brushing not only removes loose hair and keeps it from falling onto furniture or the floor, but it also helps distribute skin oils throughout the coat. The result should be a cleaner, softer coat.
Should you talk with your veterinarian?
What may seem like excessive shedding could actually be normal for some dogs or cats. But stress, poor nutrition and medical conditions like thyroid gland disorders and Cushings disease can also be underlying causes of increased hair loss. If you think your pet may be shedding more than normal, talk with your veterinarian who will be able to rule in or out any previously undiagnosed health problems.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common neurological disease among young adults, typically appearing between the ages of 20 and 40. Over 400,000 Americans suffer from MS. More than 200 new patients are diagnosed each week and more women are affected than men.
Symptoms vary. Initially visual disturbance such as double vision or red-green confusion may be experienced. Soon muscle fatigue, pain, numbness, stiffness, or pins and needles develop. As the disease progresses, patients may lose coordination and endure symptoms such as tremors, dizziness, slurred speech, trouble swallowing, and emotional disturbances. The brain consists of billions of cells interconnected to form a complex network. Signals travel from cell to cell along "axons." Axons function much like electrical wiring and, like electrical wires, have a protective sheath (known as myelin) to maintain the integrity and speed of the electrical signal. MS symptoms develop because cells and chemicals of the immune system attack the brains cells (neurons) and damage the myelin sheath. Areas of scarred myelin, called lesions, disrupt the transmission of messages.
We do not know what triggers the immune system to destroy the myelin. It appears that certain variations in genes predispose individuals to MS. Although patients are often prescribed disease-modifying drugs that slow down its progression and alleviate some of the symptoms, there is no cure for MS.
Understanding the disease. We are part of a 20-group worldwide collaboration to complete the largest ever genetics study of MS. Due to the collaborative nature of the study and the opportunity for MS research groups to pool patients DNA, it is anticipated that the study will identify virtually all of the MS risk genes. For more information, click MS Genetics Study.
Accelerating discoveries. The Harvard NeuroDiscovery Center has helped fund MS research initiatives such as the Genes and Environment in MS (GEMS) research studyas well as several MS studies through HNDC grant programs. For a complete list of MS grant funded projects, click here.
The Harvard NeuroDiscovery Center is dedicated to accelerating the discovery of effective treatments and cures for MS. For information about our many important initiatives and how to support our approach, click here. For information about coping with multiple sclerosis, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society website is very informative: National Multiple Sclerosis Society.

A clear problem was discovered in a review of Dagens Industri Digital. During last year, 2017, 11.4 billion venture capital crowns were invested in Swedish tech companies. Only 0.7 percent went to companies with all female founders. My questions were why and what could be done about this?
By increasing the visibility of female entrepreneurs in the industry we can normalize female entrepreneurship and get rid of the prejudice that entrepreneurship is male. My solution Home of Pioneers. A digital meeting point for female entrepreneurs and Venture Capital investors for a more equal industry and increased returns.

Charles Gavan Duffy. Patriot and Statesman.
Charles Gavan Duffy. Patriot and Statesman. The Story of Charles Gavan Duffy (1816-1903). Dublin: Duffy, 1967. First edition. Pp, 164. Fine copy pictorial d.j. Charles Gavan Duffy was the most prolific historian of 19th century Ireland. He was a leading figure in Irish politics between 1842 and 1855, taking part in the repeal of the union with Britain (1840s) and the Tenant League (1850s).

Vegware Jumbissimo Green Stripe 10mm Paper Straw, 7.8in Boxed 1600 Plant-based straws made from 100% premium quality paper. Sturdy and long lasting in cold drinks. Our 10mm Jumbissimo is great for thick milkshakes and smoothies. Made in the UK from sustainably-sourced paper. Striped pattern in green and white with clear on-pack composting messaging. Award-winning quality by Vegware, made from plants. Commercially compostable where accepted.

How much do you charge?
I offer a wide variety of hair services! Highlighting, balayage, haircutting, bohemian bridal looks + various treatment options.
At The Lotus Room, I am charging an hourly for all services with no option or ability to add gratuity... everything is included in the hourly price!
This allows me to insure I am charging an accurate price for each hair project we work on.
product used & the type and texture of the hair.
By charging hourly, I am charging appropriately for our time together.
Feel free to contact me for my current hourly rate.
Bridal rates vary based on intricacy and location.
Please ask me to email you a copy of the bridal contract for more details.
Brittany always does a phenomenal job with my hair, whether it be color, cut, or style! She completely immerses herself into your vision and is always open to creating something special for you. She cares so much about every appointment and client and it really shows!

With the European Green Deal, the European Union has a vision for climate protection and an economy of the future. Dawn Summers, President of GasNaturally and COO of Wintershall Dea, sets out how natural gas can contribute just before the start of the COP26. GasNaturally is a partnership of eight associations that together represent the whole European gas value chain.
Almost two years ago, the President of the EU Commission Ursula von der Leyen presented the European Green Deal. It was, she said, Europes Man-on-the-moon moment. Combining a long-term vision with a detailed implementation plan she established a bold ambition for Europe: to better protect the climate without weakening our economy. To move forward with new technologies without leaving anyone behind. And to invest a great deal of money, wisely.
In a few days, the international community will meet at the COP26 climate conference in Glasgow to update climate policy, with an eye on the 1.5-degree target. The gas industry supports decisive action. We also believe that updated policy must focus on all effective, proven measures. That includes the use of natural gas, carbon capture and storage (CCS) and the role of hydrogen. Our task is too important, too urgent, to rule out low-carbon solutions that work! And our economy and prosperity are too important to renounce economic efficiency or weaken our commitment to security of supply. The gas industry has been the hidden-backbone for peoples lives for decades: giving them energy in the truest sense of the word. We at Wintershall Dea will continue to do so in the future. But in a different way and above all: with the intention to achieve net zero in operations by 2030.
The gas industry has the will and the technology to protect our climate and advance decarbonization. We fully support net zero by 2050. We are supplying the market with natural gases and believe that gas will play a critical role in meeting COP26 objectives and delivering decarbonization. Therefore, we are transforming to ensure that our products contribute and enable climate neutrality supplying the market with natural, low-carbon and renewable gases. The gas industry is developing innovative technologies. From hydrogen and CCS, to biogas, bioLPG (biogenic Liquefied Petroleum Gas) and fuel cells, we are providing solutions for the low-carbon energy systems of the future. Gas in all its forms is not only flexible, but is also a climate-friendly fuel.
As the gas industry, we agree to von der Leyen s vision: The European Green Deal should be an effective strategy for growth. Thats why we will be presenting a call to action at the COP. Its our contribution to the European Green Deal.
We urge the Commission to create an inclusive, fit-for-purpose, policy framework that will foster all forms of clean hydrogen and CCS. That in turn would safeguard the competitiveness of Europes industrial sector and secure high-quality jobs in Europe. Moreover, we need a CCS strategy that supports public acceptance of the technology and drives forward its use.
The transitional role of natural gas must be safeguarded. There is no better complement to rising renewables, and many member states in Europe will need gas for the coming decades as they shift away from coal. We must combine economic strength and environmental protection otherwise we ll lose both.
Natural gas is an and should remain the partner for renewables. Because energy consumption continues to rise and intermittent renewables are not always a reliable source, recent reductions in coal-fired electricity generation, especially in 2020, were enabled by a constant supply of power from natural gas. The fuel was able to compensate for around 50 percent of the reduction in coal-fired electricity production in Europe. Therefore, gas should be seen as the second pillar of the energy transition alongside electrification. Gas provides flexible and scalable energy to replace more polluting energy sources. If you want renewables, you cant leave gas out of the equation.
Carbon capture and storage, CCS, can be a key technology for addressing climate change, and it is already available in some European countries. CCS involves capturing CO2, for example from power plants or industrial facilities, and storing it long-term in underground geological structures, such as depleted offshore oil and gas reservoirs. Countries on the North Sea are doing it already, such as Denmark. In the Project Greensand -Wintershall Dea is a core member of the consortium, alongside INEOS Oil and Gas Denmark and 30 other companies and organisations. The consortium believes the project may in future be able to safely store 8 million tonnes of CO2 per year, equivalent to a quarter of all Danish emissions. CCS receives significant political support in Denmark, with the Danish parliament identifying the technology as a crucial means to meet the country`s emission targets.
CCS enables proven and affordable decarbonisation of sectors with CO2 emissions that are difficult or impossible to avoid. One example is the steel industry. In Germany, 85,000 people are directly employed in the steel industry, with another four million indirectly employed in wider industry. Using CCS to enable low carbon steel manufacturing will help secure the industrys competitiveness in the coming decades. Thats aligned with another important goal of the European Green Deal, which is not only a climate programme but also a Pan-European idea to take our economies to the next level. Von der Leyen said herself: The European Green Deal is our new growth strategy it is a strategy for growth that gives more back than it takes away.... We want to be the frontrunners in climate friendly industries, in clean technologies, in green financing.
You can find the opinion piece here: Gas makes the European Green Deal work". This article was originally published on Euractiv.

This Southern staple is both inexpensive and nutritious, plus it only requires a couple of cooking vessels. Also, this recipe can be easily prepared via stove top or slow cooker.
Note: Make sure all of your mise en place, your prep work, is done before you start cooking.
Cook time: 3 hours on stovetop. 48 hours in the slow cooker.
Step 1: Place a 5-quart pot on your largest burner on medium-high heat, pour in the olive oil. When the oil starts to ripple, toss in your onions, bell pepper, celery and garlic. Cook for 45 minutes or until the onions start to turn translucent.
Step 2: Pour the 6 cups of water or stock into the pot. Add the beans and seasonings. Bring to a boil. Once boiling, reduce the heat to medium/medium-low and let simmer for 2.5 hours.
Step 3: During the 2.5 hour simmer time, prep your rice. In a bowl large enough to easily hold 2 cups of uncooked rice and enough water to cover, allow your rice to soak for at least half an hour, then drain.
Step 4: Once the 2.5 hours are up, remove the bay leaves and add the Andouille sausage. Let this cook for another half hour, stirring every couple minutes. During this time pour the rice and 4 cups of water into another pot and bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cover for 20 minutesor simply pour the rice and water into your rice cooker and let that do the work.
Step 5: Serve your beans over the rice and enjoy.
Replace 23 cups of water with a light tasting beer to add a bit of a wheaty flavor to the beans.
Replace sage and thyme with oregano if you dont have any of the former.
For the slow cooker, add all the ingredients listed (except the rice) to the pot and set the cooker for 4 hours (8 hours if youre going to be busy and out of the house).
To add more flavor, saute the onion, bell pepper, celery, garlic and sausage before adding them to your slow cooker.
Vegetarian option: Use vegetable stock in place of water and meatless sausage instead of Andouille.
If you cant find Cajun seasoning (or just dont want to shell out money for it) use equal parts garlic powder, onion powder, chili powder and paprika to replace the teaspoon of Cajun seasoning.

Despite a sneak preview of summer in February, winter reappeared with a vengeance in March! But, the MOBALE board is in the mood for summer and the 2018 Camp. This years SEC will once again be held in Waterville, Maine at Camp Tracy and the Alfond Center, June 20-23. We hope to be adding soccer to an exciting array of sports which include beep baseball, archery, wrestling, swimming, gymnastics, martial arts, rock climbing, bowling, track and field and goal ball. For many visually impaired youth, the MOBALE sports camp is the only time they get to fully participate in an organized group sport that is adapted for their unique needs. They also learn about individual sports that can become a life-long opportunity for fun ways to achieve health and fitness. Visually impaired youth in grades 3-12 may register at www.mobale.org.
WHAT MAKES US RUN? and jump and climb and...
Although the actual cost is over $600 per athlete, MOBALE is proud to offer the Sports Education Camp to visually impaired and blind youth of New England at no personal cost. Sponsors and donors provide financial resources for equipment, lodging and meals for the athletes.
ANOTHER WAY TO CONTRIBUTE: MOBALE partners with Hannaford CLYNK, bottle return. Contact Michelle at 207-208-6354 for labels.
WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO BE A VOLUNTEER?
2016 Volunteer of the Year, Cheryl Gannon, can answer that question. The first time I was asked to volunteer, I said, Im too old for that! But, I relented, and by the end of the 4 days, I found out I was NOT too old .In fact, I had such a great time, I signed up for next year on the spot! Cheryl will be back for a 4th year in 2018. I cant think of many more things in life better than seeing a smile on a kids face. As a teacher of students who are blind, Cheryl is in the trenches every day, witnessing the hard work that her students do to keep up with their sighted peers. Many of them struggle in gym class and are not very physically fit since they dont have the same opportunities to learn by watching or to participate in team sports. SEC provides not only the chance to try out team and individual sports, but it teaches important life skills: teamwork, healthy competition, following directions and perseverance in learning new skills, social interaction, friendship and camaraderie. I was most impressed with the high expectations conveyed by SEC volunteers and the fact that the kids were referred to as athletes. The growth, not only in their athletic skill, but also their independence and self-confidence, was amazing.
VOLUNTEERS ARE ALWAYS NEEDED AND WELCOME! For the safety of the athletes, volunteers must get an online background check and view an online course in safety in youth sports. Find out more information and/or sign up to volunteer on our website.
GET IN TOUCH WITH MOBALE....

In the first days of 2020, Mini released the first official details of the Mini Convertible Sidewalk Edition, which marked the return of the Sidewalk moniker in the brands open-top lineup. Now, the British automaker has just announced the special edition convertible is going on sale in the United States starting next month.
The funky cabriolet will reach American soil in a Cooper S form, which means under the hood will be a 189-horsepower (141-kilowatt) four-cylinder turbo engine, which is good for a 0-60 miles per hour (0-96 kilometers per hour) acceleration in 6.7 seconds.
The 2021 Convertible Sidewalk Edition will come with a Manufacturers Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $38,400 plus an additional $850 Destination & Handling fee. As standard, the open-top Mini will be offered with a six-speed manual gearbox, while optionally available will be a seven-speed dual-clutch automatic. The DCT gearbox will add $1,500 to the base price.
The Mini Sidewalk Edition is the perfect balance between style and performance for Mini customers who are looking for top down, sun drenched driving this summer, Patrick McKenna, Department Head, Product Planning at Mini USA, comments The Mini Sidewalk Edition is also loaded with a full complement of premium standard features making it a true value for those who want something truly unique for the drive.
In the United States, the new special edition Mini convertible will be available with two exterior paints, Deep Laguna Metallic and Mini Yours Enigmatic Black Metallic, both complemented by an anthracite soft-top roof. The standard equipment includes full-LED headlights and fog lamps, 17-inch two-tone wheels, head-up display, keyless access, power-folding side mirrors, Harman/Kardon premium audio system, heated front seats, and more.
Woodcliff Lake, NJ, March 26, 2020. MINI USA announced today the availability and U.S. pricing for the new 2021 MINI Sidewalk Edition. The latest MINI convertible offering, which is expected to reach dealerships in the U.S. next month, comes to the U.S. as a Cooper S variant, and has a Manufacturers Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) of $38,400 plus an additional $850 Destination & Handling fee. A 7-Speed Sport Dual-Clutch Transmission is also available and will add $1,500 to the MSRP of the vehicle.
The return of the MINI Sidewalk Edition pays homage to one of the most popular special editions previously offered by MINI. Like its predecessor, which launched in 2007, the MINI Sidewalk Edition comes well equipped and includes custom Sidewalk insignias and aesthetically compelling contrasts and colors that speak to MINI enthusiasts who want to stand out and express themselves.
With unique color combinations, an expressive exterior, and stylish ambience in the interior, the Sidewalk Edition makes for a fun ride for everyone. On the outside, the Sidewalk Edition is available in Deep Laguna Metallic or MINI Yours Enigmatic Black Metallic exterior paints complemented by the anthracite Sidewalk soft top roof.
The Sidewalk insignia also lends distinctive accents to the side scuttles and brushed aluminum door sills. The Sidewalk edition also comes with custom 17-inch Scissor Spoke 2-Tone wheels. Inside the Sidewalk Edition, the MINI Yours Leather Lounge Sidewalk Anthracite is accompanied by a custom Sidewalk Sport Leather Steering Wheel and Sidewalk Edition Floor Mats, while the interior surfaces feature a special custom Sidewalk illumination.
The MINI Sidewalk Edition is the perfect balance between style and performance for MINI customers who are looking for top down, sun drenched driving this summer. said Patrick McKenna, Department Head, Product Planning, MINI USA. The MINI Sidewalk Edition is also loaded with a full complement of premium standard features making it a true value for those who want something truly unique for the drive.
The MINI Sidewalk Edition comes with a number of interior and exterior features as standard, including LED Fog Lights and Headlights, MINI Head-Up Display, Comfort Access Keyless Entry and power-folding exterior mirrors with auto-dimming on both the interior and exterior mirrors. The MINI Sidewalk Edition also comes standard with comfort and entertainment features perfect for open top driving, including SiriusXM Satellite Radio with one year All-Access, harman/kardon Premium Sound System, an 8.8 Touchscreen Navigation Package, Heated Front Seats, Storage Package and Automatic Climate Control.
The new MINI Sidewalk Edition is a Cooper S variant with a MINI TwinPower Turbo 4-cyliner engine delivering 189 hp and 207 lb-ft of torque enabling it to go from 0 60 mph in 6.7 seconds. It will go on sale in April at MINI dealers across the U.S.
MINI is an independent brand of the BMW Group. In the United States, MINI USA operates as a business unit of BMW of North America, LLC, located in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey and includes the marketing and sales organizations for the MINI brand. The MINI USA sales organization is represented in the U.S. through a network of 121 MINI passenger car dealers in 39 states. MINI USA began selling vehicles in the U.S. in 2002 with the introduction of the MINI Cooper and MINI Cooper S Hardtops. Since then, the MINI Brand in the U.S. has grown to encompass a model range of five unique vehicles.

Shanika Minor was wanted for allegedly shooting and killing a pregnant woman after a confrontation on March 6, the FBI said. The victim was a neighbor of Minor's mother.
The woman was due to give birth within the week, the FBI said, noting that the woman and her unborn child both died before emergency medical personnel arrived.
After the shooting, Minor fled the scene and had not been seen since, the FBI said.
Minor was apprehended early this morning at a motel near the airport in Fayetteville after someone called the FBI Public Access Line giving her possible location, the FBI said.
She was taken into custody without incident and is being held the Cumberland County Detention Center, the FBI said.
A reward of up to $100,000 was offered for any information leading directly to her arrest.
An arrest warrant was first issued for Minor on March 9 charging her with first-degree intentional homicide and first-degree intentional homicide of an unborn child. A federal arrest warrant was issued on April 27 charging Minor with unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.

A rare desk chair from Olympic on display at Southampton SeaCity museum has been removed from display due to vandalism reports Daily Echo. The vandalism was caused in part by children climbing over the glass barrier to sit on the chair and ended up smashing the chair instead. And now Southampton faces a 1,600 ($USD2,487)repair bill. And it is not the first time it has happened causing money to be spent restoring the historic chair. For now the chair has been removed from public view and will only return for special events.
While we would prefer to keep original artefacts from our collection on permanent display, we recognise that we cannot continue to risk such damage to these items and incur the extra cost of repairs.

Here we would like to draw your attention to OYEA transaction code in SAP. As we know it is being used in the SAP BC-MID (Middleware in Basis) component which is coming under BC module (BASIS).OYEA is a transaction code used for IDoc administration in SAP.
It comes under the package SED.When we execute this transaction code, RSEADMIN is the normal standard SAP program that is being executed in background.
Program named RSEADMIN will run when we enter transaction code OYEA.
OYEA is a Report Transaction code type which is shortly represented as R.

Bill Aiming to Restrict Gaming Advertising in Bulgaria Bill Aiming to Restrict Gaming Advertising in Bulgaria Progression Support right from Two Big Parties Poker advertising may very well be restricted further more in Bulgaria as a expenses on the matter gained prior today help support from the appealing Citizens regarding European Progress Bulgaria get together (GERB) in addition to from the Bulgarian Socialist ...
It holds true that many of the CBD removal and also packaging methods make use of cutting-edge technologies but making use of CBD in its hemp oil kind goes back farther compared to most individuals recognize.
Ms Murray takes cafe dining up a notch in the Sydney CBD. Classics are rejuvenated with quality ingredients and Gabriel coffee is a perfect partner. Studies have shown cannabinoids are effective for managing symptoms associated with the disease and may limit the diseases progression. Cbd for pain relief vance ms bias towards reporting cannabis oil cbd atwater mn findings exists, both within individual clinical studies as well as within systematic reviews evaluating the role of cannabis in pain management. Southaven Ms on August 19th at am. Hemp products are commonly associated with traditional tetrahydrocannabinol producing marijuana.

How Can We Help You?
At Florida Appeals, we want our clients to feel like we are instantly a part of their team, adapting to suit the needs of our clients and their case. Working across the State of Florida, we can not only be physically present for trial support but also available via email and messaging for further research and support. Having an appellate lawyer on board to assist as different issues arise leads to better outcomes and client satisfaction throughout the process.

Whether the ANC are pursuing free higher education like kamikaze pilots, or trying to add another room on to Nkandla, the party are now pushing for a huge tax hike to fill the holes in our economy, according to a report in Business Tech.
There is a R40 billion gap in the countrys revenue, as identified by Malusi Gigaba in his mid-term budget speech. The governments failure to stop tax dodgers complimented by rampant corruption and lax regulations against avoidance is now set to hit ordinary taxpayers right in their pockets.
Theyve effectively punctured their own tyres, and are now asking us to forfeit our own just so the ANC can continue their journey over the edge of a cliff.
In total, they are looking to plug this rand black-hole over the next two years. South Africas shortfall actually stands at R80 billion. There is an expected R50 billion to come in expenditure cuts too.
This would equate to annual cuts in expenditure amounting to about R25 billion as well as revenue-enhancing measures amounting to about R15 billion, including where appropriate, tax measures, the presidency said in a statement.
A huge spanner in the works is the near-suicidal attempt to force through a free-fees plan for higher education. The Zuma regime are desperately trying to implement cost-free higher education. Its noble in theory, but devastating in practice.
Tax hikes in the last two years have failed to deliver any expected revenue increases. 2015/16 failed to raise the predicted R18 billion, just as 2016/17 failed to earn the R28 billion it was forecast.
But, the third time is a charm right? Heres the problem. Raising taxes has little-to-no effect on those that are causing the issue. If you arent cracking down on those avoiding tax, how are you going to get them to pay an increase?

Perhaps this is an unremarkable Friday evening in the home of an upper-class family with its usual problems. Or, perhaps this is the evening that finally begins the process of throwing the many cracks of regret, deceptions, and desires into relief; when the rocky marriage, alcoholic sister-in-law, fake friendships, and co-dependent daughter all come home to roost.
What is the measure of a life? Its a question not often considered in the rush of living but left for the last moments of reflection when it all feels a bit too late. Margaret Edsons Pulitzer Prize winning script is a meditation on the boundary between life and death from the perspective of one accustomed to the event in the abstract.
This review comes from Night Writes guest reviewer Nicole Pingon.
Zhu Yis A Deal, delves into the conflicts between the East and West, old and new ways of thinking and the love and passion that drives us all. Through her wit and humour, Yi presents an intriguing Chinese perspective on the generational and cultural conflicts that exist as a result of a globalised America.
In the near future, the world has reached breaking point: the government is forcibly mandating birth control, people are fleeing across borders, communications have broken down between major powers and volatile states, and nuclear war hangs on the horizon. Ditch makes manifest the threats, predictions, and fears gathering for generations and presents the world as it may one day be.

Capture concepts on the pace of thought using a mind map maker designed that will help you focus in your ideas and remove all the distractions whereas mindmapping. Crew accounts assist you to manage users inside MindMup all of your users can have individual MindMup usernames and passwords, however you may cover everyone with a single subscription. A thoughts map is a superb non-linear visual illustration of your concepts that mimics the way in which your brain thinks.
forty six When including family wealth from pensions and social security, the richest 1% of the American inhabitants in 1992 owned 16% of the nations total wealth, as opposed to 32% when excluding pensions and social security. MindMup additionally integrates with Office365 and Google authentication for straightforward account administration.
If for any purpose a Dispute proceeds in courtroom somewhat than by means of arbitration, all such Disputes (regardless of principle) arising out of or relating to those Phrases, or the connection between you and us, shall be introduced completely in the courts situated in the county of New York, New York or the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Too typically, this results in confusion as thoughts maps created by a person might not be understood by others so simply. Nevertheless, none of those strategies rely as mind maps as a result of they dont mimic the pure means your thoughts move. Our Expertise Partners deliver confirmed joint options based on our award-profitable scale-out storage, archive and knowledge safety portfolio.
If youre utilizing the Providers on behalf of a company, business or other entity, or in case you are using the Companies for commercial functions, you and the entity will hold harmless and indemnify the Verizon Media Entities (outlined in Section eight below) from any swimsuit, declare or motion arising from or associated to the usage of the Companies or violation of these Phrases, together with any liability or expense arising from claims (together with claims for negligence), losses, damages, suits, judgments, litigation costs and attorneys fees.
Financial inequality was larger than inequality in whole wealth, with the highest 1% of the population proudly owning forty two.7%, the following 19% of People proudly owning 50.3%, and the underside 80% owning 7%. 45 Nevertheless, based on the federal reserve, For many households, pensions and Social Security are an important sources of revenue during retirement, and the promised benefit stream constitutes a sizable fraction of household wealth and including pensions and Social Security in web price makes the distribution more even.
Please sign in together with your company or college account to view your MindMup cloud information (or register using a special method ). Thoughts maps are similar in construction to concept maps , developed by studying experts in the 1970s, but differ in that thoughts maps are simplified by focusing around a single central key idea.
When you choose to attract mind maps with thoughts mapping software program, you are not able to freestyle your map. Whether youre working on Windows, Mac OS or Linux, you may always access your thoughts maps proper inside the web-browser. However, if for any purpose the Class Motion Waiver set forth under in subsection 14.3.c cannot be enforced as to some or all of the Dispute, then the settlement to arbitrate is not going to apply to that Dispute or portion thereof.
Thoughts maps assist to simplify any data on a page as a result of they are composed of key phrases (slightly than long sentences). Based on my thoughts mapping experience, the next are some methods to optimize a thoughts map. Please sign in to your MindMup Gold account, or register for MindMup Gold to proceed.

WASHINGTON (AP) _ Tony Snow, the highly visible White House press secretary, will leave his job on Sept. 14 and be replaced by his deputy, Dana Perino, an administration official said Friday.
President Bush was to announce the changes during an appearance in the White House briefing room.
Snow, ailing with cancer, had said recently he would leave before the end of Bush's presidency. The father of three children, Snow said he needs to make more than his White House salary of $168,000. He could earn far more money on the speechmaking circuit.
The 52-year-old Snow was a conservative pundit and syndicated talk-show host on Fox News Radio before he was named press secretary on April 26, 2006. He is the latest in a string of White House officials to head for the exits.
Friday was the last day of work for political strategist Karl Rove. Others who have left since Democrats won control of Congress are counselor Dan Bartlett, chief White House attorney Harriet Miers, budget director Rob Portman, political director Sara Taylor, deputy national security adviser J.D. Crouch and Meghan O'Sullivan, another deputy national security adviser who worked on Iraq.
In 2005, Snow had his colon removed and underwent six months of chemotherapy after being diagnosed with cancer. This March, he underwent surgery to remove a growth in his abdominal area, near the site of the original colon cancer. Doctors determined it was a recurrence of his cancer.
He was out of work for five weeks, then returned and underwent chemotherapy, treatments that only recently concluded and have left him thinner, grayer and with less hair.
Snow earned his stripes within the White House for his striking popularity around the country, relentlessly good-natured and bright tone, and smooth, snappy repartee with the media during briefings. Reporters, though, grumbled that an emphasis on showmanship too often took precedence over rhetorical precision and careful preparation.
Some senior White House aides referred to his briefings as ``The Tony Snow Show.''
Snow was Bush's third chief spokesman in just over six years marked by increasingly tense relations between the White House and the reporters who cover it.
Snow had little experience as a press secretary before joining the White House team. He worked in the White House under Bush's father as a speechwriting director and spokesman for regional issues. As a pundit, he had been sharply critical of Bush at times.
He held several print journalism positions, mostly working for newspaper opinion pages, and was most recently the host of the ``Tony Snow Show'' on Fox News Radio and ``Weekend Live with Tony Snow'' on the Fox News Channel.
Perino, 35, has been Snow's principal deputy, filling in for him when he was away after surgery and at other times.
Before joining the press office, she worked as associate director of communications at the White House Council on Environmental Quality.

Corticosteroid medications are used to treat many medical conditions such as asthma, rashes, and lupus. Although beneficial, these drugs also carry serious side effects, so you need to work with your prescribing physician to make sure the benefits far outweigh its risks.
When prescribed in doses exceeding your bodys normal levels, steroid medications may suppress inflammation and reduce bothersome symptoms of inflammatory conditions like asthma and arthritis. Steroid medications also reduce your immunity, which helps control symptoms of autoimmune diseases like lupus.
While steroid medications may appear dangerous just by looking at this list, preventing these side effects is actually easy and manageable.
Chronic steroid therapy may affect bone and muscle health, so getting regular exercise helps maintain healthy bone and muscle structure. It is also important to maintain a balanced diet to make sure your body is getting what it needs to heal itself.
As mentioned above, this is to supplement your bone density health that may be affected by long-term steroid therapy. However, it is best that you consult with your doctor first before taking any supplements.
There are newer steroid formulations that have various strengths and lengths of action. Work with your physician to find the best option for you.
Read the full article by Mayo Clinic here to learn more about steroid therapy and how to best manage potential side effects.

Send announcements or events, which are open to the public at no or minimal cost, to The Loudoun Connection, 7913 Westpark Drive, McLean, VA 22102 or e-mail firstname.lastname@example.org. Deadline is Friday, two weeks before the event. Photos/artwork encouraged. For more information, call 703-917-6454.
Congregation Sha'are Shalom will be holding special kiddush luncheon following shabbat services, Saturday, Sept. 20, for all new and prospective members. The luncheon will begin about noon following services, which begin at 9:30 a.m. There is no charge, but guests are asked to RSVP to the synagogue by calling 703-737-6500 or sending an e-mail to email@example.com.
The 10:30 a.m. service Sunday, Sept. 21, at the Unitarian Universalists of Sterling is "What We Did Well." The Rev. Anya Sammler-Michael invites congregants to consider their mission, as individuals and as a congregation. What are we called to do? What are we prepared to accomplish? UUS meets every Sunday at 10:30 a.m., at the Sterling Oaks Commerce Center at 22135 Davis Drive. Visit uusterling.org or call 703-406-3068.
On Saturday, Sept. 27, at 4:30-8:30 p.m., All Dulles Area Muslim Society (ADAMS) will hold the 7th Annual Interfaith Peace Gathering at the ADAMS Center, 46903 Sugarland Road, Sterling, in remembrance of the victims of the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks. Interfaith groups will be represented and speaking at this event. ADAMS will also be honoring local police and fire departments for their continuous community service. Local government officials will also be speaking at this event. Visit www.adamscenter.org.
Congregation Sha'are Shalom, 19357 Evergreen Mills Road, Leesburg, will hold free study sessions in preparation for Rosh HaShanah (the new year) and Yom Kippur (the day of atonement). The Jewish High Holy Days ("yamim noraim" or days of awe) start with Rosh Hashanah, Monday evening, Sept. 29, which marks the beginning of the year 5769, and end with Yom Kippur, a 25-hour fast, which will begin Oct. 8, Wednesday, at 6:15 p.m.
The final session takes place Saturday, Sept. 27, 8- 9 p.m., Selichot: The Gates are Opening, an evening of prayer, study and spiritual preparation beginning with havdalah, continuing with selichot (prayers for forgiveness), and concluding with a brief study of the Rosh Hashanah liturgy.
Call Congregation Sha'are Shalom at 703-737-6500 or write to CSS at P.O. Box 4518, Leesburg, VA 20177-8577. Visit Congregation Sha'are Shalom on the Internet at www.sha-areshalom.org.
The 10:30 a.m. service Sunday, Sept. 28, at the Unitarian Universalists of Sterling will be led by seminarian and guest preacher, Shelly Paige. UUS meets every Sunday at 10:30 a.m., at the Sterling Oaks Commerce Center at 22135 Davis Drive. Visit uusterling.org or call 703-406-3068.
Congregation Sha'are Shalom, Loudoun County's Conservative synagogue, has announced its schedule for High Holy Day services for the Jewish year 5769. The High Holy Days mark the beginning of the Jewish New Year for 5769 and start with Rosh Hashanah (the beginning of the year) at 7:30 p.m., Monday, Sept. 29. Services will be held the first and second days of the holiday Tuesday, Sept. 30 and Wednesday, Oct. 1. Services each day begin at 9 a.m. Yom Kippur (day of atonement) services begins with Kol Nidrei (all vows) at 6:15 p.m., Wednesday, Oct. 8, and resume at 9 a.m., Thursday, Oct. 9. A break-the-fast will be held after the conclusion of Yom Kippur services around 7:20 p.m., Thursday.
All services and events are held at Congregation Sha'are Shalom, 19357 Evergreen Mills Road, Leesburg. Nonmembers can reserve tickets by calling the synagogue at 703-737-6500 or by downloading the reservation forms at www.sha-areshalom.org.
CONNECT, the young adult group at Sterling United Methodist Church, 304 East Church Road, Sterling, is seeking new members. CONNECT focuses on bringing people together in a social setting as they commonly search for Christ's direction in their lives. The group is open to all men and women in their 20s and 30s, married or single, with or without children. There is no cost for membership, although activity participation fees may apply. Call 703-430-6455 or visit www.sterlingumc.org.
Stephen Ministry at Ashburn Presbyterian Church, 20962 Ashburn Road in Ashburn, is a one-to-one listening ministry for those who need support for reasons such as divorce, loss of a loved one, recent hospitalization or terminal illness. Although Stephen Ministers are not counselors, they do empathize with those they are called to support and help them to find comfort through God's loving presence. Call Mark Armstrong, associate pastor at 703-729-2012 or visit the church Web site at ww.ashburnpresbyterian.org.

Cherry head conures, informally known as the Christmas conures, are great companion birds because of their entertaining and buoyant nature. To enjoy their company at home make sure you have understanding neighbors, as these birds are extremely noisy.
They are endemic to South America with a feral population in countries like Puerto Rico, Spain and U.S. states like California and Florida.
An ideal cage for cherry head conures must have horizontal bars with minimum 1 gap. These bars will help them climb easily. The dimensions of the cage should be 30X24X30 if not more. Put some rope or wooden or concrete perches inside to keep their nail trimmed and feet strong. Remember, thicker the perches, better the balance for cherry head conures.
Average room temperatures are comforting for these birds. If the temperature drops down below 65F, it will affect your pets immune system. Also, make sure to keep it in a draft free area as this is detrimental for your bird.
These jaunty birds rather enjoy interacting with their owner than being idle for an extended period. They are extrovert and do not shy away from mingling with new people around them. Their endearing nature is characterized by a clown like personality as they dont leave a single opportunity to amuse the owner with their tricks and intelligence. Chewing is another favorite activity for which they need chewable wooden toys. However, they become destructive and grouchy when bored.
If you keep a mating pair, give it some alone time during the breeding period, or else the male can turn out to be aggressive.
Give commercially available pellet mixes, fresh fruits, and vegetables to your cherry head conure daily. This bird is attracted towards fatty seeds, which you should not provide in large amounts.
Keeping a conure healthy and happy is easy if you make it feel good by letting it stay outside the cage for around 2 hours each day. Provide a safe zone (outside the cage) for your pet where it can stretch its wings, move the way it wants and do some exercises on its own. Let it sleep for around 10-14 hours in a quiet room daily.
As far as bathing is concerned, provide a shallow water dish or mist spray your pet every day. Do not keep it under low temperatures right after the bath.
Also, clean the cage and other paraphernalia with warm soapy water. Dry them well.
Usually cherry head conures are extremely sturdy, but if you observe coughing, beak swelling, nasal discharge and loss of appetite in your pet, consult a vet.
These birds are available for adoption within a range of $650 to $950.
- Their name red -headed conure is often referred to the Miltred conure, the Wagners conure, and the Finschs conure.
- These birds are featured in the famous documentary film, The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill by director Judy Irving.

- 1 Do you really need a real estate agent to sell your home?
- 2 Is it better to be a real estate agent or broker?
- 3 What should you not fix when selling a house?
- 4 How much money do you lose when you sell a house?
- 5 Who is the highest paid realtor?
- 6 Is being a broker worth it?
- 7 Do brokers give agents listings?
- 8 What makes a house harder to sell?
- 9 What sells a house fast?
- 10 What adds most value to a house?
- 11 Do you have to pay taxes on profit from selling a house?
- 12 At what point do you pay capital gains?
- 13 How can I avoid paying capital gains tax?
Do you really need a real estate agent to sell your home?
Although many people think that they need a real estate agent in order to sell their home, there is actually no requirement or law that mandates that you hire on to help you sell your home.
Is it better to be a real estate agent or broker?
Brokers typically complete more training than real estate agents. Their training allows them to independently facilitate property transactions or own a brokerage, supervising other agents.
What should you not fix when selling a house?
- Underestimating the costs of selling.
- Setting an unrealistic price.
- Only considering the highest offer.
- Ignoring major repairs and making costly renovations.
- Not preparing your home for sale.
- Choosing the wrong agent or the wrong way to sell.
How much money do you lose when you sell a house?
On average, Bankrate estimates sellers pay 5% to 6% of the sale price as commission fees. For a $300,000 home, that means you d pay $15,000 to $18,000. This commission is split between your agent and the buyers agent.
Who is the highest paid realtor?
DALLAS, May 12, 2020 /PRNewswire/ Ben Caballero, a current Guinness World Record title holder and No. 1-ranked real estate agent in the U.S., set a new record for home sales in Dallas-Ft. Worth last year.
Is being a broker worth it?
More Money One of the biggest benefits of becoming a broker is uncapping your earning potential. Sure, when you work as an agent, you can earn more by selling more. But when you become a broker, youll automatically earn a higher commission simply because youre a broker.
Do brokers give agents listings?
Yes, most brokers do not provide leads. All the leads are usually generated by agents themselves. Some of the larger firms with a bigger footprint the broker will give leads to the top producers in the office. You should look for a bigger firm to work for with a few big producers in the office.
What makes a house harder to sell?
Factors that make a home unsellable are the ones that cannot be changed: location, low ceilings, difficult floor plan that cannot be easily modified, poor architecture, Robin Kencel of The Robin Kencel Group at Compass in Connecticut, who sells homes between $500,000 and $28 million, told Business Insider.
What sells a house fast?
- Pick a selling strategy.
- Set an attractive price.
- Invest in minor repairs.
- Stage and add curb appeal.
- Create a listing strategy.
- Time your sale right.
What adds most value to a house?
- #2 Landscaping. Average return at resale: 100 percent.
- #3 Minor Kitchen Remodel. Average return at resale: 98.5 percent.
- #5 Attic Bedroom Conversion.
- #7 Major Kitchen Remodel.
- #13 Living Room Updates Decor.
Do you have to pay taxes on profit from selling a house?
Do I have to pay taxes on the profit I made selling my home? If you owned and lived in the place for two of the five years before the sale, then up to $250,000 of profit is tax -free. If you are married and file a joint return, the tax -free amount doubles to $500,000.
At what point do you pay capital gains?
You should generally pay the capital gains tax you expect to owe before the due date for payments that apply to the quarter of the sale. The quarterly due dates are April 15 for the first quarter, June 15 for second quarter, September 15 for third quarter and January 15 of the following year for the fourth quarter.
How can I avoid paying capital gains tax?
If you hold an investment for more than a year before selling, your profit is typically considered a long-term gain and is taxed at a lower rate. You can minimize or avoid capital gains taxes by investing for the long term, using tax -advantaged retirement plans, and offsetting capital gains with capital losses.

Digital Crate Digging Continues on what I refer to as a Terrible / Terrific Tuesday; things can play out either way..
This is the first Tuesday of 2021, were claiming the terrific outcome! during 2020 we didnt come undone but for those that didnt make it well pray...
It was one of the roughest years of my lifetime, the Lord supplied some of us a lifeline so well proceed and continue..
Celebrating life in the midst of the toil and strife; this good word and good music are on the menu..
O-Dog Day Partying, rocking this venue listening to Inner City , joined by Idris Elba- Live from Elektricity, Detroit (We Dance As One NYE) courtesy of Defected Records..
Oh yes!! still checking out some of those awesome New Years Eve sets; Defected Records was raising money & awareness for The Trussell Trust because they share the passion for a hunger-free future: concat website? https://www.justgiving.com/fundraisin...
In the meantime and between time check out the music and the track; please!! theyre serious about this, theyre not playing!

Anyone whos spent any meaningful amount of time in Ketchikan knows the name Schoenbar.
Aaron Spencer, whos lived here about two years, said his interest in the history of the name was piqued when his daughter started attending Schoenbar Middle School.
I guess its named after a pretty famous guy that was here right around the turn of the century, in 1900, John Shoenbar, he said. And he had a mine out there that he had bought from somebody else locally. It used to be called the Laskawanna Gold Mine, and he bought it in 1900. So I started wondering, okay, well, where is this mine? Is it still there? Is it not?
Spencer had his facts partially right. John Shoenbar was a real guy who came to Ketchikan to strike it rich in the Klondike Gold Rush. And the former name of the mine could be Laskawanna. But according to the US Geological Survey, it was called Laskawa. And according to Patricia Roppels book about gold mining in Southeast Alaska, the mines name was Laskawanda. Still more sources call the mine Lackawanna, and others Laskawonda, with an O.
This is just the beginning of the story of John Shoenbar and his mine. First things first, though the middle school, major road and bypass in Ketchikan that all bear the name Schoenbar are somewhat incorrectly named. John Shoenbars name didnt have a C.
The guy also reportedly went by Colonel Shoenbar, despite the fact that he wasnt actually a colonel.
I talked to the Senior Curator of Collections for the Ketchikan Museum Department, Hayley Chambers, who told me he began calling himself Lieutenant Shoenbar while mining for silver in Nevada.
By the time he comes up to Ketchikan, hes calling himself a colonel, she said. Colonel, you know, being a title particular to mining engineers at the time. Thats all fine and good, but he didnt have any schooling as a mining engineer.
Various sources paint him as an adventurous man who traveled across the US in the late 1800s, seeking his fortune and unsuccessfully trying his hand at different trades.
A SitNews article by June Allen from June 2002 described him as playing fast and loose with the truth. It was a fair assessment, given that his birth year is still in dispute, nobody seems to be able to tell if his wifes name was Mamie or Marie, and its likely that he scammed New York businessmen out of more than a million dollars in investments for a Ketchikan gold mine that had yet to produce anything of value.
The more I found out about this guy, the more fascinated I became.
But Spencers question was about the current state of the mine, not about the colorful story of Col. John Shoenbar-without-a-C.
So, I turned to the US Geological Survey.
We would never call it a mine, because it didnt have production, said Ric Wilson, a USGS research geologist who works up in Anchorage. And by definition, mines have production.
Shoenbar, Wilson said, is classified as a prospect because it never produced anything of note.
Why would they have thought that there was anything valuable in the ground? I asked.
So there were a number of veins that were developed around this gabbroic pluton that had pyrite and chalcopyrite, which are two sulfide minerals, in them, and can sometimes be gold-bearing, Wilson explained.
Pyrite is more commonly known as fools gold.
The Schoenbar Mine was more of an idea than an actual operation, Chambers said. There were a couple of tunnels built, but more promotional than actual mining.
So, these tunnels. Where were they? What happened to them? What state are they in today?
Chambers didnt think they were underneath Schoenbar Middle School.
So, if we were to try to locate the mine today, we wouldnt look at the middle school, I said.
No, she replied. From what Ive read, the middle school is not located anywhere near the mine. But there is a house built over mining area.
Luckily, the USGS records data on this sort of thing, meaning that I was able to find the latitude and longitude coordinates of where they think the mine used to be.
55.35 degrees latitude and -131.64 degrees longitude led me to the southeast corner of Fairy Chasm Road and North Yorktown Drive. To me, it just looked like a ravine, set into the ground quite steeply and surrounded by trees and brush. Im no mine expert, but all traces of Col. Shoenbars failed gold hunt seemed to have disappeared with time.
The USGS report on Schoenbar Prospect said the coordinates are accurate to within about a half-mile. So if you live in Bear Valley near Fairy Chasm and Yorktown, take a look at the land around your house. You might find youre standing on a little piece of Ketchikans rich history.
Thanks for joining me for this installment of Ketchikan Uncovered. You can find past episodes on our website at KRBD.org.
Do you have questions about Ketchikan? Something youve always wondered but never really had the chance to find out? Let Emma know by submitting your queries to KRBDs Facebook page or by calling KRBD at 225-9655.

At Kingsthorne our aim is for the children to learn about the equipment that they will be using and how to use it safely. They will plan, design and make products and be able to evaluate their work to reflect what went well and how to improve on it further.
Children in Key Stage 1 plan, design and make objects linked to their topics. Children learn how to evaluate their ideas and reflect on the final product.
In Key Stage 2 children will research and develop a design to create a product. They experiment using a range of tools before choosing a technique and planning their work. They evaluate and reflect on what they have made.
Children cook on a regular basis, learning about nutrition, safety and personal hygiene. They learn and practice a range of skills and techniques such as slicing, grating, chopping and dicing, to name just a few. Recipes range from fruit smoothies and soups to homemade bread and meat/vegetarian pizza, children also have the opportunity to take recipes home to share with their families.

This can be a thoroughly revised, reorganised, and up to date moment version of the vintage textbook on colloid technology, supplied for the 1st time in one quantity.
Colloid technology is the examine of platforms concerning small debris of 1 substance suspended in one other. Suspensions of drinks shape the foundation of a large choice of platforms of clinical and technological significance together with paints, inks, ceramics, cosmetics, soils, organic cells, and plenty of nutrition arrangements. even if focusing on structures concerning suspensions of solids in water, the improvement here's made in phrases that are quite simply prolonged to the opposite much less usually encountered structures.
The booklet explains the rules of colloid technological know-how, and gives a transparent account of the elemental actual and chemical recommendations on which our knowing of colloidal platforms relies. The accessory is on making the theories available through supplying all precious development.
Carbon fabrics are enormously varied of their coaching, constitution, texture, and applications. In complicated fabrics technology and Engineering of Carbon, famous carbon scientist Michio Inagaki and his coauthors hide the newest advances in carbon fabrics, together with new concepts and procedures, carbon fabrics synthesis, and updated descriptions of present carbon-based fabrics, developments and functions.
Volumes 26 and 27 are either taken with reactions happening at electrodes bobbing up in the course of the passage of present. they supply a entire assessment of the examine of electrode kinetics. the elemental principles and experimental method are provided in quantity 26 when quantity 27 offers with reactions at specific sorts of electrodes.
Chemical Kinetics bridges the space among newbie and expert with a direction that leads the reader from the phenomenological method of the premiums of chemical reactions to the state of the art calculation of the speed constants of the main generic reactions: atom transfers, catalysis, proton transfers, substitution reactions, power transfers and electron transfers.
Heterogeneous catalysis performs an element within the construction of greater than eighty% of all chemical items. it really is as a result crucial that each one chemists and chemical engineers appreciate the elemental ideas in addition to the functions of heterogeneous catalysts. This publication introduces the topic, beginning at a uncomplicated point, and contains sections on adsorption and floor technology, catalytic kinetics, experimental equipment for getting ready and learning heterogeneous catalysts, in addition to a few elements of the layout of business catalytic reactors.

According to the Partnership for Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health (PMNCH), The 21st Session of the United Nations Human Rights Council has received a report which aims to help policymakers in improving womens health and rights by providing guidance on implementing policies and programmes to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity in accordance with human rights standards. 
The technical guidance includes general principles, stressing for example empowerment of women and girls and the participation of affected populations, including marginalized groups. It provides guidance on budgeting and planning, including adopting a national health plan as a core obligation of the right to health, and underlines implementation in practice, presenting examples of identified problems in the areas of emergency obstetric care, and needs of adolescent girls. It underscores the need for accountability and provides detailed guidance on monitoring, forms of review and oversight, and remedies. Finally, it emphasizes the role of international assistance and cooperation.
Click here to read the Technical guidance on the application of a human rights-based approach to the implementation of policies and programmes to reduce preventable maternal morbidity and mortality.

Hawthorne, CA Today, Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) successfully launched its Falcon 9 rocket carrying a Dragon spacecraft to orbit in an exciting start to the mission that will make SpaceX the first commercial company in history to attempt to send a spacecraft to the International Space Station something only a handful of governments have ever accomplished.
At 3:44 a.m. Eastern, the Falcon 9 carrying Dragon launched from SpaceXs launch pad at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Now Dragon heads toward the International Space Station. On that journey it will be subjected to a series of tests to determine if the vehicle is ready to berth with the station.
Broadcast quality videos, including video inside of the SpaceX factory, may be downloaded at vimeo.com/spacexlaunch and high-resolution photos are posted at spacexlaunch.zenfolio.com.
At a press conference held after the launch, SpaceX CEO and Chief Designer Elon Musk began, I would like to start off by saying what a tremendous honor it has been to work with NASA. And to acknowledge the fact that we could not have started SpaceX, nor could we have reached this point without the help of NASA... Its really been an honor to work with ...

When I started out as a mediator, I soon learned that parties dont always tell the truth and parties do not always disclose all the facts of a case. Only by exploring areas where the parties dont want to go, do I find underlying positions driven by undisclosed influences. These may well otherwise remain hidden throughout the mediation process, often masked behind a rhetoric of demands for justice or rights.
Working in the Middle-East, I see the similar processes at work on a regional, national, and international scale. The Arab-Israeli conflict is one I describe as the most entrenched multi-party conflict in human history. Many think it started in 1948 when the League of Nations, having taken over from the British in governing Palestine, created a Jewish homeland called Israel. In truth it has been going on much longer.
The conflict is complicated and the number of parties involved today is considerable. However, for the sake of this article, I want to focus on the two principal parties: the Israelis and Palestinians. Palestine is also known as the West Bank (of the River Jordan), Occupied Territory or Disputed Territory, depending on your position. It is ruled by its own Government called the Palestinian Authority who also administers Gaza, a small strip of land on the Mediterranean coast. The Palestinian population is almost exclusively Arab and Muslim. The Christian population in the West Bank is now just 1.2% and in Bethlehem, the birthplace of Christianity, it has fallen dramatically from 85% in the late eighties to about 9% today. This fall has been attributed to both economic problems stemming from the conflicts and, more significantly, the rising tide of radical Islam and persecution. Working with both Israelis and Palestinians, particularly young Palestinian Christian adults, I have seen first-hand the impact of radical Islam on this minority group.
My work involves educating and encouraging creative thinking and exploring alternatives for a better future, including the use of ADR strategies. The current generation of young adults is the first to have grown up with the internet and they are now well connected and able to chat to people around the world. They have seen what happened in Egypt where Facebookers instigated the overthrow of President Mubarrak. They witnessed the fall of Gadaffi in Libya. They now nervously watch the state of affairs in Egypt (to their south) and the emerging civil war in Syria (to their north). They see democracy at work in the west and even with its inherent faults, can see it offers far more than the tribal regimes they live under today. With this global perspective, they are beginning to question their long term future.
The Arab-Israeli dispute is principally about land, or so we are often led to believe. In truth the dispute is ideological, for the very existence of the State of Israel is anathema to the majority of Arab and Persian Muslims, especially those of fundamental disposition. It is also a serious bone of contention to the Arab families whose ancestors lived there and were displaced when the State was formed, despite the fact that Jews have always lived there. It is well known that some 700,000 Arab refugees and displaced persons were created by the newly formed State. However, as the new State of Israel came into being on 15th May 1948, Jewish refugees numbering 850,000 were also sent quickly in the opposite direction, many in just the clothes they wore, from neighboring Arab countries. This said, today there are some 1.2 million Arabs in Israel working and living alongside their Jewish neighbors. Arabs are represented in the Knesset (Government), in the Judiciary and are involved in all aspects of the administration of the State including serving in the IDF, the Israel Defence Force. Israel provides medical care to thousands of Palestinians, some 40 tons of aid each week into Gaza, and works in collaboration with Palestinian defense and security forces to reduce outbreaks of fighting on the borders.
This was well demonstrated in April this year when Israel came under sustained attack from Islamic Jihadists operating inside Gaza who randomly launched more than 250 rockets on Israeli villages and schools in a period of four days injuring many. When Israeli forces responded with a very high-tech surgical strike using drones and military aircraft killing just the jihadists, the subsequent uprising by Gazan citizens was actually policed by Gazan security forces - an admirable effort - which prevented a clash between them and IDF soldiers.
So where is this conflict heading and what can be done? Weve had the Oslo Accords, the Camp David Agreements, Tony Blairs negotiating team and the Quartet of Nations all trying to secure peace. Numerous Presidents and Prime Ministers have all come and gone over the decades and given the conflict their best efforts. So what is it about this particular conflict thats outlasted all others? Significantly, what could or should be done that is different, to try to create peaceful coexistence?
Working with young Palestinian adults I am always shocked at how little they truly know or understand about the history of their conflict! From an early age they have been indoctrinated with stories passed down by ancestors and a highly biased education system. One only has to look at Palestinian school books to see how young minds are being misinformed from a very young age. Arabic TV stations show childrens cartoons with strong ideological messages embedded in them, which only serve to perpetuate an already fragile situation.
Within Jewish culture too there is fear and suspicion of their Palestinian counterparts. Jewish children grow up learning to run and hide from rocket attacks, or endure the many daily security searches in shopping malls, schools, colleges and bus stations simply because of the possible risk of a terror attack. Tel Aviv bus station for example, is a stark reminder of the ever present threat, with its signs to the bomb shelters everywhere. Jewish children grow up living in a State with security everywhere, propagating the belief about the perceived enemy just the other side of that tall, grey, concrete wall which now separates large stretches of Palestine from Israel.
In working with the Palestinian youth, teaching them to think differently is a big challenge. I find myself using all my skills as a mediator, combined with great patience, as I sensitively try to question and test orthodox thinking and get them to rethink its roots. The Jewish people have endured centuries of persecution. History documents their plight and struggle to survive, culminating in the holocaust. Therefore it is somewhat ironic that it was the holocaust itself, supported strongly by the Muslim Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, that caused the world to recognize the need for a Jewish State. His policy backfired beyond his imagination. So like a child perpetually bullied in the school playground, there is, deep in Jewish psychology, a strong fight response today and this defensive state of mind is in many ways quite understandable. Sometimes though I fear the bullied becomes the bully in certain situations. Equally, the Palestinians need to understand their neighbors and be honest about their history.
To end this conflict both Israelis and Palestinians must also commit to educating their young as to the truth and reward peace and reconciliation, rather than propagating hate and suspicion. There are wonderful examples of this such as the Yad ba Yad (Hand in Hand) School in Jerusalem in which both Palestinian and Jewish students are educated together and pro-actively engage in reconciliation work. It can be done. But it requires effort, commitment and finance. The older generations are now so entrenched having suffered decades of hurt and pain that many cannot or will not change. But the young people can - and now is the time.
A biblical proverb states if you train a child in the way they should go, when they are older they will not turn from it. This is what both Arab and Jew need to focus on - teaching their children to make their world a better place. And this change must come from within their own cultures and must not be imposed by any western power. That said, the price for young Palestinians to do this can be their own life when surrounded by hostile forces who seek Israels destruction. Whilst working in the West Bank both I and some of my young apprentices have been threatened with being shot. It is no playground for romantic idealists.
I took some young Palestinians to the Yad Vashem (Holocaust Memorial) museum in Jerusalem. It touched them profoundly and without exception they all wept as they left. I had previously explained why Israel behaves the way she does and the museum reinforced this in a way I never could. Quite simply, they got it. They understood the memories of the Holocaust were still embedded deep in Israeli psychology and for a handful of young students at least, deeply entrenched views crumbled when faced with the evidence of an attempt to wipe out the Jewish people. Having only ever heard one side of the story they had their own revelational experience that day.
Most Palestinians and Israelis are tired and fed up with the ongoing problems. They all want peace. But when peace is undermined by the nefarious objectives of very well-funded and dangerous minority groups then, as is often the case, the masses suffer. However, if the world wants to see an end to this protracted conflict it must take a bottom up approach - not a top down one. I say to my apprentices if you want to see change, then you must be the change you want to see.

Chlorella Chlorella is fresh water, single celled algae that contains the highest amount of chlorophyll in any known plant. Apart from having numerous benefits for the body, it is also one of the best known methods of expelling radiation from the body.
Chlorella, in particular, has the ability to neutralize radiation and remove toxins such as cadmium, dioxins and PCBs from the body. Its ability to detoxify uranium, lead and copper has also made it very valuable, especially considering the scenario today.
Fulvic acid Fulvic acid is a water-soluble organic substance that is found in surface water and it has some really amazing benefits although scientists the world over are just waking up to it. Fulvic acid is a humic acid that transforms the molecular structure of water and enhances the functions of water.
Magnesium Magnesium is an important mineral in our bodies and is associated with a variety of benefits. Primary among these benefits today is that magnesium helps in removing heavy metals that encourage radiation damage from our body. Magnesium oil is one of the best possible ways in which it can be incorporated into your body.
Zeolites Zeolites are minerals that contain water molecules trapped inside them. Zeolites can occur in nature, and there are about forty of them which form in volcanic and sedimentary rocks but there are also plenty of artificial zeolites as well. Zeolites have a number of uses today, especially in water filters and water softeners but the most important use is that it can expel heavy metals from the body. Because of its molecular structure, zeolites can bind heavy metals and other toxins in the body.
Preventive measures are very important especially today as theres no saying how far radioactive fallout can travel and reach us. Its indeed better to be prepared and understand the different ways in which we can prevent radiation from reaching us. Of course, learning how we can remove the radiation is equally important.

Scientists working on misinformation and fake news 'vaccine'
A psychological tool aimed at immunising the public against the "virus" of fake news and misinformation has been developed by scientists.
Researchers claim to have found a so-called "vaccine" to curb the damaging effects of fact distortion - by exposing them to the lies.
Their study claimed, when presented consecutively, the influence well-established facts about climate change had on people were cancelled out by bogus claims made by campaigners.
But when the information was combined with a small "dose" of the misinformation, the fake news had less resonance, the research, published in the journal Global Challenges, said.
The extra data helped "inoculate" participants by warning of the "distortion tactics" sometimes employed to suit political ends, according to the researchers.
Lead author Dr Sander van der Linden, from the University of Cambridge, said: "Misinformation can be sticky, spreading and replicating like a virus.
"We wanted to see if we could find a 'vaccine' by pre-emptively exposing people to a small amount of the type of misinformation they might experience. A warning that helps preserve the facts.
"The idea is to provide a cognitive repertoire that helps build up resistance to misinformation, so the next time people come across it they are less susceptible."
A disguised experiment presented more than 2,000 US residents from a diverse range of backgrounds with two claims about global warming.
The first was that the scientific community was rigidly divided over climate change; with one website alleging "over 31,000" scientists agreed there was no credence the phenomenon was accelerated by human CO2 release.
Also shown was the accurate statement that "97% of scientists agree on man-made climate change".
Participants were asked to guess the percentage of scientific consensus on the issue, with those shown the fact estimating agreement was around 90%, while those exposed to the myth around 63%.
This was a jump of 20 percentage points (from 71%) in opinion difference based on what was believed beforehand among those who heard the scientific fact and a dip of nine percentage points (from 72%) on the opposite side.
In a group shown both claims consecutively, however, there was barely any shift from what was thought by participants initially (a drop of 0.5% to 73%) - suggesting the myth neutralised the lie.
A pair of groups were then shown the scientifically-supported fact, but with a caveat.
One heard simply that "some politically-motivated groups use misleading tactics to try and convince the public that there is a lot of disagreement among scientists" while the other had the specific myth analysed.
They were then presented with the misinformation.
Despite exposure to fake facts, a jump in the direction of the true figure still followed - up 6.5 percentage points, to 80%, among the former group and up nearly 13 percentage points, to 84%, with the latter.

Ive sat through a fair few presentations at conferences myself, and have even given a few. I seem to have been subjected to particularly many lately that seem to lack any real direction or purpose, and have no idea what impact they were meant to have. I have, though, noticed an increasing commonality between some of the poorer presentations Ive seen and while theyve left me frustrated at having wasted my time, these tricks seem to go down a storm with audiences of primary educators. The same may be true of secondary colleagues, but Ive less experience with them.
- Find some common sense statements and turn them into bon mots.
- Take random useful qualities, or ideas, or just words and turn them into an acronym.
- If an acronym wont work, create a diagram for the initials. Stars are good. Or hexagons.
- Intersperse your words with asides about imaginary children you once met.
- Use the Chart-Art facilities in PowerPoint to link seemingly unrelated things into a single diagram.
- Present broad concepts with a background of a grid as if to imply a scientific graph.
- Throw in a critical comment about Michael Gove (no need to worry about his successor yet).
- Point out that you love being in the classroom.
- Remind people that its all about the kids.
- Blame Ofsted for something (it doesnt matter what, it always goes down well).
- Use the phrase research shows. No need to back this up with any references.
- Throw in some references to books youve read. Implore people to read them.
- Make another comment about Ofsted inspectors.
- Say something that shows you understand how busy teachers are.
- Refer to well-known Scientists: a mis-quote from Einstein is as good as any real research.
- Emphasise the importance of things other than Literacy and Numeracy.
- Point out that SATs are not a real measure of childrens achievement.
- Say again that its all about the kids; thats why we came into this profession.
- Make a reference to the teacher who gets snarky about her mug / chair / parking space.
- Criticise the DfE. No specifics are necessary: just criticise the department somehow.
- Show people some Buzzfeed style activity that shows their learning style.
Or their dominant brain hemisphere.
Or their balance of red, blue, green or yellow leadership style.
- Acknowledge that evidence doesnt support these ideas, but claim that they remain valid.
- Blame secondary schools for something.
- Raise the issue of the mood hoover or hard-to-engage staff member. No solutions needed.
- Remind people that were preparing kids for an unknown future, so anything goes.
That should comfortably fill an hour or more. If you pad out the slot with anecdotes about children (your own, your class... a niece. Any will do) and comments that show how you were once an excellent teacher, then all you need now is a couple of common sense statements to underpin your work, or some popular messages that make your listener feel that they agreed with your every word: we need more focus on the whole child or learning isnt linear or teachers do the most important job in the world are good examples.
Now, I wonder if there are any opportunities for running courses on how to run a course...?

Note: Supplemental materials are not guaranteed with Rental or Used book purchases.
Explore everything awesome about bats in a fun, accessible, and laugh-out-loud format! Find out which is the biggest bat, and which is as tiny as a bumblebee. Learn the secrets of these shy mammals that hide by day and fly at night. Can you hear as well as a bat can? Definitely not--bats have super sharp hearing, and they use ultrasonic squeaks to find their prey and recognize each other. Bursting with attention-grabbing facts, fun, and stickers, this reader will keep every child turning pages.

This years World Food Day will focus on family and small scale farming as ways to improve food security and protect the environment.
Blue & Green Tomorrow is currently running a crowdfunder to ensure its survival. Please pledge.
October 16, 1981 was the date in which the UNs Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) was founded and has since been established as the World Food Day.
This year, the theme is Family Farming: Feeding the world, caring for the earth, suggesting that family-based agricultural activities can play a key role in eradicating hunger and protecting the environment at the same time.
The FAO has made 2014 the international year of family farming which is also the central theme of Slow Food Salone del Gusto, to be held in Turin later this month.
According to FAOs 2013 figures, nearly 850 million people worldwide suffer from chronic hunger.
FAO director general Jose Graziano da Silva wrote in an opinion article, Around 500 million of the worlds 570 million farms are run by families. They are the main caretakers of our natural resources.
When family farmers are stronger, it is a win-win situation: more food available locally translates into more food security and into the possibility of producing and buying food for and in local markets.
These efforts lead to sustainable territorial rural development, something that everyone farmers, communities and governments should invest in. When we combine productive support to social protection and other public support such as better access to health facilities and schools, we can create a truly virtuous sustainable development cycle.
Ahead of World Food Day, Unilevers brand Knorr announced its support for the World Food Programmes Home Grown School Meals Programme, to provide one million meals to school pupils in Kenya, Indonesia and the Philippines.

The butterfly bush weed (Buddleia davidii) attains a height of 15 feet. It forms long, arching branches with showy flower spikes that measure up to 10 inches in length. Blossoms appear in colors of red, orange, purple, lavender, yellow and white. Flowering begins mid-summer and runs until the first hard frost of fall. The bush easily colonizes and invades with aggressive tendencies when it escapes cultivation. It becomes a dangerous noxious weed when pitted against native plants.
Imported from its native China, the butterfly bush became a popular ornamental garden plant. The bush attracts numerous species of butterflies with its abundant flower clusters and fills the garden with sweet fragrance. It attracts numerous butterflies but also poses a threat to their survival. The butterfly caterpillars do not feed on the bush. The caterpillars feed predominately on the native plants that the butterfly bush quickly chokes out and kills with its aggressive growth. This means that the life cycle of the butterfly is disrupted and might cause the loss of many caterpillars.
The butterfly bush arrived in Britain in the 1890s and became a favorite garden shrub. The shrub escaped cultivation and become a serious noxious weed. The bush is also invasive in New Zealand. The state of Oregon has officially declared the butterfly bush to be a noxious weed, according to the Oregon Department of Agriculture.
The butterfly bush produces large amounts of small, winged, lightweight seeds. Seed production begins early for the shrub and often occurs during its first year of life. Dispersal occurs by the wind, wildlife and water. The seeds remain viable for three to five years, according to Washington State University. The bush also reproduces vegetatively. The cut stems of the butterfly shrub take root when they come into contact with soil.
The seeds germinate in dry locations. They grow along roadsides, riverbanks and within cleared forest. The shrub poses a serious threat to riparian (along waterways) areas and threatens areas undergoing forest regeneration because it chokes out newly planted tree seedlings.
People can help control the spread of the butterfly bush weed by removing all flower heads before they have a chance to go to seed. Using herbicides such as glyphosate works moderately well. The shrub should be cut to the ground before applying herbicide for the most effective control. When cutting back the butterfly bush weed never leave the branches on the ground or they will quickly sprout and produce new shrubs.

I have seen a lot of documentation about drivers of all sorts, including books full of information about writing drivers, assembling embedded systems and whatnot, but nowhere have I seen any information about the board file. I am amazed that there has been so much secrecy on this subject... It's almost like there's some... dare I say it? Conspiracy.
All joking aside, systems that have I2C, SPI or other type of driver will require the person assembling the device to register their peripherals in the board file. This file is often found in your architecture area, in the kernel directory /arch/MAJOR_ARCH/SUB_ARCH/, for example, /arch/arm/mach-msm/.
First, we'll want to know where it is connected and what address it'll use. I'll freely steal code from the file /arch/arm/mach-mx5/board-cpuimx51sd.c which is in one of my kernel distros. I honestly don't know what this is, but I spotted this chip in use in the board file, so I'll use it.
NOTE: Carefully read your board file, or another one in the same architecture. Although many of the principles are the same, there will be some rather large differences between this tutorial and your architecture.
First, make sure you include the appropriate files in your board file...
Next, you'll want to establish the GPIO that's to be used for the interrupt, set up the platform data block defined in the above mentioned tsc2007.h include.
Assemble all of this information in the i2c_board_info block. There may already be an array of i2c_board_info blocks already in your board file.
Once we've got this all assembled, we've got to make sure that the i2c bus is initialized in the main init functions in the bottom of the board file.
If you've got it all put together properly and your driver 'turned on' in the kernel configuration, you should have a working device at this point.

Here is the third installment of the Economist Reading Comprehension Challenge. Enjoy!
1. The supporter of not paying student athletes would most likely agree with which of the following statements?
E. Although the current rules governing student athletes should be modified, student athletes should not receive more than a free education in compensation for their participation in university athletics.
A. Athletes who no longer participate in university athletics may benefit financially.
B. The directors of several major university athletics programs may be forced to retire.
E. Current players would profit more than past players regardless of the length of time participating in the athletics program.

Wi-Fi, 3G and 4G: What's the difference?
Many customers ask for Wi-Fi when they mean Wireless. This seems like a simple mistake or slip of the tongue, but when calling a provider, it can lead to getting a product that you dont want.
Wi-Fi is not a separate method for providing internet from a carrier to your computer. Rather, its a technology that is fitted into the modem that receives a signal from an ADSL or Cable connection. Rather than transmit that connection via another cable to your computer, the Wi-Fi chip will enable your modem to re-broadcast the signal around the house to any device with another Wi-Fi chip in it- thats most laptops, smartphones and tablet computers.
Even printers and media players have Wi-Fi chips in them now, opening up a range of possibilities - like wireless printing to another room, or short range sharing of content from your computer to your television, without cables. The best simile is to think of a portable phone it looks a lot like a mobile phone, but it isnt. Its wireless to a limited range, within a few dozen metres of a base station. In the case of Wi-Fi, the computer/tablet is like the handset, and the modem is like the base station.
So, we know there's a way to push a voice call a short way over the air (portable phone), and a long way over the air (mobile phone). There's a smiliar way to push internet data a short way over the air (Wi-Fi). Is there a way to push internet data a long way over the air?
Mobile Broadband is synonymous with Wireless broadband (with a capital W). It is a mobile technology that pushes internet data over a cellular network at speeds that qualify as broadband. The modem is often a small USB device that looks like a memory stick, or a little box that can re-transmit that signal over Wi-Fi.
This seems like a perfect option in a country like Australia, which has a massive, difficult and sparsely populated terrain, and a well established network of mobile phone towers. And in fact, thats all mobile broadband is if you look at a mobile phone tower, you may be able to spot a small satellite dish, about 40cm across. This is a powerful 3G Antenna. It transmits data the same way your phone calls are transmitted, and so its placed in the same spot.
What does 3G mean? 3G refers to 3rd Generation. This classification system refers to mobile data technology, and breaks it down to mobile phone calls as 1st generation, text messaging and picture messaging as 2nd generation, and sub-broadband data and internet as 2.5 generation. 3G refers to broadband internet over the airwaves. For the record, broadband speeds are legally classified as speeds above 256kb/sec, though this definition will probably adjust upwards in the future. Many people consider broadband speeds to be anything above 1500kb/sec.
This sounds like the best solution, right? It is, in theory. Like with mobile phone calls, the quality is affected by range, the presence of mountains and weather. A city is a rapidly changing landscape, and a mobile service may work well today and have a big building in the way tomorrow. Telstra, Optus and Vodafone have their own networks of mobile towers that provide this service.
Most other providers will provide mobile broadband, but usually they are reselling the Optus network, and otherwise competing on price and gigabyte allowance. MyNetFone resells the Vodafone network. Telstra jealously guards its mobile network and does not offer it for resale through other carriers - with good reason. The NextG network runs on a different technology, and across a much wider network, making it the premium provider for now.
The market is fragmented and competitive, with a range of prices and data allowances. But most data allowances are small to prevent network overloading, and expensive, as the technology isnt quite there yet. For many people, however, this is the only broadband connection available. It is also more convenient than a wired connection, quicker and cheaper to set up, and easier to manage. But for now, it's the least preferable option for people using their connection at home, who require better value and more stable performance.
These are the main technologies in widespread use at the moment, though there are others that are on the table, or in use in limited capacities.
4G is the next generation of wireless, high speed internet technology. But where to go from here? Telstra uses a different part of the spectrum than the other providers, which explains their superior coverage. But its still basically a radio service, making it subject to disruption in a way that makes it untenable for an always on connection. Isn't there a form of wireless data delivery that penetrates walls, travels far and wide, and has historically been so good that even a coat hanger could pick up a decent signal? Why yes! The television spectrum!
The move from analogue to digital television has been mandated by several governments for exactly this reason to open up this chunk of powerful radio spectrum for internet data delivery. There will be a literal auction for this space in the future, with chunks going to high bidders and though Telstra and the NBN will be in there, they might be up against some big international players, including Google and Apple. Exciting stuff!
This is a very general term to refer to anything that represents a big leap from what exists right now. When you see it, take it with a grain of salt.
Wi-Fi is a bit more stable than mobile broadband, but only goes short distances from a base station that is tethered to a cable or copper line. In a world where everyone and everything is a short distance away, a small chain of Wi-Fi devices working off each other can turn one modem into a feed for several devices and people. If youve ever shared (ie. stolen) your neighbours Wi-Fi connection, you know how this works. This method is also used in many hotels, restaurants and public spaces. Its a low cost, efficient way of sharing a powerful and stable connection with many people. The speed goes down the more people get on it, but that can be managed through passwords and other measures.
So why not a widespread Wi-Fi network, connecting a few dozen people at a time, to a local hardwire connection? There are some simple answers: its expensive, people move around a lot, and Australia is a very, very big place, with some long distances in between. Some companies have come and gone trying to offer this solution, and it does work in small doses in other places (crowded cities with a comprehensive fibre network underneath it, like Seoul or Tokyo) but overall, it will likely remain a small player.
Satellite would seem to be another option, but it's unlikely to become widespread due to cost, unreliability and difficulty with maintenance. However, there are small test communities around Australia and the world where a large (like, house-sized large) satellite dish is connected to an underground fibre optic network.This would be handy in communities that are from a central communications grid.
For now, make sure that any search for a broadband provider takes into account whats available to you, first and foremost. Once youve used our plan wizard to narrow down the providers that suit you, call the provider or Compare Broadband (1300 106 571) for a coverage check to get started.

As you watch the video, look at the examples of conjunctions (and, or, but, because, so, although). They are in red in the subtitles. Then read the conversation below to learn more. Finally, do the grammar exercises to check you understand, and can use, conjunctions correctly.
We use words called conjunctions, like and, or, but, because and although, to join two parts of sentences. Conjunctions can be used to give more information, give alternatives, give reasons, give results or give unexpected information.
We use and, or and but to connect two parts of sentences which are similar in grammatical status.
We use and for adding information, or for giving alternatives and but for unexpected or different information.
I'm OK for food, dance and music, and I'm having a wonderful time.
There's a reggae band from Jamaica or a Russian electro-pop group on the other stage.
Shed like to go but she cant.
Can we use these words at the beginning of a sentence?
We dont usually use conjunctions to start sentences when were writing, but people do when theyre speaking.
Or when theyre chatting on the internet?
Yes. There are a lot more conjunctions which we use to connect one clause with another clause. For example: because, for giving reasons, so, for talking about results or purposes, and although, for unexpected or different information.
I'd like to see that Irish band, because Celtic music is pretty cool.
Although he doesnt like camping, he goes to lots of music festivals.
... we'll be there by 12. Although we have to put up our tents too.
It's one of those cars for seven people, so there's plenty of room.
We need to arrive early so (that) we can get a good place.
With that although sentence, can you put the clauses in a different order?
Yes, both orders are possible.
He goes to lots of music festivals, although he doesnt like camping.
Can you also say even though he doesnt like camping?
Yes, that means the same thing. There are a lot more conjunctions, but thats enough for today.
No buts. Its better to look at a small amount at a time ...
So that I can remember it?
Daisy: Are you and Alfie going to the festival this weekend?
Oliver: Hmm? We want to, but we don't have a car so we're not sure how to get there. It's in the middle of nowhere!
Daisy: Amy's dad is taking us on Saturday morning, and he's offered to bring us home again on Sunday. Why not come with us?
Oliver: But where would we sleep? You can't fit five adults and tents in one car.
Daisy: You can in his it's one of those cars for seven people, so there's plenty of room. Although we could look for a bed and breakfast in the village near the festival, if you'd rather.
Oliver: No, no, brilliant! Camping and concerts. A great combination!
Daisy: Or camping, concerts and cooking. It's a world music festival but there's also food from all over the world Chile, Ethiopia, ummm ...
Oliver: Cool! Let's call Alfie and Amy, and get organised.
Alfie: Let's see ... here's the programme. The smaller concerts start at 12 but the bigger ones start at 3. What time will we be there?
Oliver: Well, if we leave here at about 10am, we'll be there by 12. Although we have to put up our tents too, so we could see something at 1 o'clock.
Amy: But we have to carry the tents from the car and then find a good space, so we'll be later than that.
Daisy: A space near food and toilets, but not too near because it'll be noisy ... and busy.
Alfie: True. So, carry the tents, find a space, put the tents up ...
Amy: (interrupting) ... eat ... we'll be hungry by then.
Alfie: Also true. Put the tents up, eat ... so we'll be ready for concerts at, what? 3 oclock?
Oliver: I would think so, yes.
Amy: Isn't your mum going? World music and food sounds like the perfect festival for her!
Daisy: I know, but she can't go even though she told me she'd really like to. She's in Vienna. ... and speaking of Mum ... Hi, Mum, we were just talking about you!
Sophie: All good, I hope!
Alfie: Hi, Sophie. Daisy was just saying you can't come with us all to the festival this weekend.
Sophie: No, I'm here in Austria until Tuesday it's the land of chocolate cake, the waltz and Mozart, so I'm OK for food, dance and music, and I'm having a wonderful time ... but you can take photos for me, can't you? In fact, would you like to be guest bloggers and write a post?
Amy: Oh yes! That would be so cool!
Sophie: So, my two, how are things ...?
Alfie: Wow, writing a post for Sophie's blog. Thousands of people read her blog!
Amy: I know! And we can interview people and try lots of different food from different places and if we organise ourselves, we can see as many concerts as possible.
Alfie: I'd like to see that Irish band, because Celtic music is pretty cool.
Amy: There's a Portuguese singer I'd like to see.
Alfie: Oliver and Daisy could write about the food ...
Amy: Umm ... yes ... maybe. Although maybe we should see what they want to do too.
Alfie: Er, yes. Yes, we should.
Amy: But, it's a possibility.
Oliver/Daisy: OK, bye Mum. Love you.
Oliver: Bring us some cake! OK, you two, we were looking at the programme ... Concerts. Hey, at 3 o'clock there's a great looking reggae band from Jamaica or a Russian electro-pop group on the other stage ...
Daisy/Oliver: I fancy the Russian gig oh, haha.
Daisy: How about you two go to the reggae?
Alfie: Fine by me ...
Do you think you would enjoy camping at a music festival? Why? Why not? Tell us what you think!

Persistent stress could trigger mental deterioration later on in life, a research study published by the BMJ Open recommends. The lasting research study observed over 800 Swedish females over a span of 38 years. Participants reported occurrences of very demanding life occasions such as divorce, long-term joblessness, or a persistently sick relative. Neuropsychiatric examinations and exams were after that carried out intermittently throughout many years. Signs of anxiety, such as problem sleeping and impatience, were likewise documented throughout each follow-up check out.
Outcomes of the research study located a high price of top-level tension. One in 4 of those that joined the research experienced a minimum of one stressful life event. One in 5 of the females later on developed mental deterioration. The number of stresses reported was very closely related to a lot of boosted threat of developing mental deterioration and also a big danger of developing Alzheimers illness.
Why might emphasize construct a bridge to degenerative problems? Researchers from the research study point to the effects of tension on the brain as a description. Stress impacts immunological, vascular, and also neurological systems, explains Dr. Lena Johansson, author of the research as well as affiliate of Sahlgrenska Academy at Gothenburg University. Stress-related hormones have actually been shown to transform the physical structure of the brain, impacting discovering, mood, and also dramatically, memory. Impacts additionally consist of damage to dendrites which causes more anxiety, boosting a snowball effect on the regression of mind structures.
Scientists likewise acknowledge that high-levels of stress can be preserved even after a perturbing event has passed. This prevails in sufferers of extremely traumatic events, such as surviving a battle, natural disasters, or fierce attacks; they could bring an elevated risk of dementia as well as Alzheimers Illness.
Writers of this study believe that additional study is had to get a larger understanding of just how lasting anxiety could result in later problems of mental deterioration as well as Alzheimers condition. Doc Joe reports strategies to do a similar research on males. The good news is, means of reducing your possibilities of creating these conditions are mainly understood, although prevention is not feasible. Another way to prevent it is by taking a supplement to help keep healthy. Most of this information is on focusednutrients.com. A research conducted by experts at the University of California, San Francisco explains behavior way of life modifications that can reduce the danger of Alzheimers and also dementia.

International commerce places unique pressures on the sustainability of water resources and marine environments. System impacts include noise, emissions, and chemical and biological pollutants as well as the introduction of invasive species into key ecosystems. At the same time, maritime trade also enables the sustainability ambition of intragenerational equity in the economy through the global circulation of commodities and manufactured goods, including agricultural, energy and mining resources. The Sustainable Oceans Project is working to extend and demonstrate a systems framework for analyzing the multiple dimensions of the sustainable ocean-commerce nexus. As a demonstration case, the social, economic and environmental aspects of the nexus framework are explored using scenarios for the production and transportation of conventional and bio-based energy commodities.

Bloody Ford, July 1st, Cuba, Spanish-American War.
Charles Johnson Post was born August 27, 1873 in New York City. An artist and journalist, he studied at the Art Students League in New York City under John Twachtman, Kenyon Cox, J. Carroll Beckwith, and Harper Pennington. He was engaged as artist-journalist and editorial writer with the Associated Press. He also directed the film "The Making of a Sailor" for the Navy Department. He was also the author of such books as "Private Enterprise Did This" and "The Little War of Private Post." He demonstrated first successful talking motion pictures and is recognised as the inventor of post process of subtractive color photographs. In 1898, Post enlisted as a private in with the 71st New York Infantry, U.S.V., which served with a regiment of the Fifth Army Corps and worked also as an illustrator for the Army, where contributed an important series of sketches from the war with Spain.
The Little War of Private Post, his posthumous publication on the War with Spain is a generally straightforward, often amusing, frequently colorful, and occasionally gripping narrative of a New York artist-volunteer who landed with the Fifth Army Corps at Siboney, rushed to aid the Rough Riders at Las Guasimas, fought through the horrors of Bloody Ford and Hell's Pocket, participated in the siege of Santiago, and survived the fever-ridden aftermath at Montauk Point.
Charles Johnson Post received not one but two handmade red flannel bellybands for protection against tropical fevers when he enlisted. He was paid a monthly wage of $13.00, with an additional $1.30 combat pay per month. Setting off for what he later termed the little wars that are the mere trivia of history, he came back to write a mild chronicle of many little men who were painting on a big canvas, and of their little epic routines of life, with a common death at their elbow. It is only the little, but keen, tribulations that made the epic routine of an old-fashioned war. He died in September, 1956. He has been represented by actor Greg Thompson in the recent film First Intervention: The Spanish-American War, produced by The History Channel and NFL Films.

For instance, "EVERYTHING", "everything" and "Everything" are different in a case-sensitive comparison, but the same in a case-insensitive comparison.
In some programming languages, for instance C, the source code is case-sensitive. In some, for instance Pascal, it is not. Most programming languages will allow the programmer to compare strings in either case-sensitive or case-insensitive ways.
In some operating systems, e.g. UNIX, the file system is case-sensitive. In some operating systems, e.g. Windows, it is not. On some older OS's (e.g. pre-windows DOS) the point is moot as capitalisation is not stored at all.
e.g. Under unix, you can have two files in the same directory called 'fred' and 'FRED'. If you ask for the file called 'Fred', you will get neither of them, but a 'file not found' error. Some consider this to be a plus.

How has globalization changed social inequality? Why do Americans die younger than Europeans, despite larger incomes? Is there an alternative to neoliberalism? Who are the champions of social democracy? Why are some countries more violent than others?
In this groundbreaking book, Sylvia Walby examines the many changing forms of social inequality and their intersectionalities at both country and global levels. She shows how the contest between different modernities and conceptions of progress shape the present and future.
The book re-thinks the nature of economy, polity, civil society and violence. It places globalization and inequalities at the centre of an innovative new understanding of modernity and progress and demonstrates the power of these theoretical reformulations in practice, drawing on global data and in-depth analysis of the US and EU.
Walby analyses the tensions between the different forces that are shaping global futures. She examines the regulation and deregulation of employment and welfare; domestic and public gender regimes; secular and religious polities; path dependent trajectories and global political waves; and global inequalities and human rights.

Educationists, as well as parents, suggest students to self-study at home. It is a must for you to study after school as it helps you in revising whatever you have learned during the class and you can also prepare early for the next class. As a result, you could set a strong base for your studies.
So, in this write-up, our focus would be to give you an idea of how you can study actually after the school.
You get 24 hours in a day. Around sixteen hours from that, you dedicate to your school and sleep. Now you have eight hours in which you have to do all the things from eating food and playing to watching your favorite TV shows.
In this time, it is a must for you to find around 2 or 3 hours for the self-study. It will help you in setting the right base for the academics, and you will see much improvement in your academics.
There are many distractions you may find at your study place. The Internet, social networks, and noises coming from outside could be some of those, and it could make it tough for you to concentrate while studying.
You should keep such distractions away and should also keep the procrastination at bay.
It is possible that you may have a better understanding of some of the subjects, but you may find it tough to learn some topics. It is a must for you to find the topics in which you have trouble.
You should give most of your time to learn such topics. First, you should learn these topics in the class; then you should study it at home as well. If you still find yourself unclear about the question, then you should ask the teacher for the assistance.
Having a healthy lifestyle is also a must as it helps much in the learning. It provides the required nutrient and eases to the brain that improves its functioning.
Getting enough sleep and eating nutrient food is a must for you to have a healthy lifestyle.
In the academic days, you may have difficulties while writing academic assignments. Opting for our online assignment help could prove helpful you in such situation, and you can get a well-written coursework from us.

This morning Kyle discovered that his pond was frozen over with thick ice. He brought 3 pieces to school to show us. We were surprised at how thick the ice was. We wondered how fast the ice would melt if we put it in different places. We put one piece in the shade near the playground, another piece outside our classroom in the sun, and the third piece we left in our classroom.
At the end of the day we checked to see what had happened to the ice. The piece that was inside had completely melted. The one that was in the sun had melted a little bit, and the one that was in the shade had hardly melted at all.
It only got to 5 degrees today, so we are not surprised that the ice that was left outside did not melt very much.
Perhaps you might like to put a plastic container of water outside and see what happens? You might like to try this with several containers and experiment with different amounts of water. After a very cold night see what happens?

The "Laws of Nature" create "Absolute Space" and determine the size of the universe - nothing can exist beyond these laws. They guide everything within the universe - they create the personality of the universe - without these laws there could be no universe.
Relative Motion: All motion must be relative to something else. To perceive motion of a body it must be compared with another frame of reference or body. When its motion is being compared to absolute space its motion is always zero. That is why Michelson could find no evidence of motion of the Earth through space.
Although an accelerating body's motion is changing relative to other bodies, it is motionless relative to space. It is impossible to move from one part of space to another part, it is all one. The body's energy level relative to space itself ("space energy level") does however, increase as a force is exerted on it. This is perceived as an increase in the inertial mass of the body. In a cyclotron (particle accelerator) a proton becomes more massive as it accelerates. Its relativistic energy level relative to absolute space itself (space energy level) increases. When a force is exerted on an accelerating body it always has two changes in its energy level, one relative to other bodies (vector) or reference frames (momentum) and one relative to space (inertial mass), the absolute reference (scalar) frame.
It was discovered by Dr. Vera C. Rubin that a galaxy rotates like a wheel with the outer portion traveling much faster then the center part of the wheel. The velocity of the stars, in the outlying portions of a spiral galaxy are greater then the stars near the center. Therefore the outer stars' relativistic inertial mass, (space energy level)is higher and gravitational power (G constant) will also be stronger.
This is why stars are created in these outlying regions of the rotating spiral galaxies. The gravity of matter is strong enough, due to its higher "space energy level"(relativistic inertial mass), for fusion reactions to take place and the proto-stars to form and ignite into new born stars. This is also the reason there is no need for the mysterious dark matter to hold the galaxies together. Gravity is strong enough due to the higher "space energy level" (relativistic inertial mass) to do the job itself.
Absolute Space: Isaac Newton thought that absolute space was a distinguished frame of reference that could show bodies to be truly moving or truly at rest. - He was half right with his motion equation F=MA, BUT he didn't know that a body's relativistic mass/energy also rises as the force is exerted on it but no motion is involved. A body always has two forms of energy: 1. Mass/energy and 2. motion/energy. He did not realize that nothing moves relative to space itself. Space is the absolute frame of reference. A body has no motion relative to space but it does have a mass/energy level relative to space. Since a body's motion relative to space is always zero when comparing a body's energy with space, the body indicates it energy, relative to space, by variation in its inertial mass or its "space energy level".
Universal (Absolute) Space: Is the total area of the universe. It is the absolute frame of reference. Space is not just an empty void between bodies, it is filled with all the "laws of nature" that make the universe work. It is these "laws of nature" that create absolute space and control everything within it. The Laws of Nature give the universe its personality. What would the universe be without interia or gravity, etc.?? Space has no coordinates or dimensions - it has no geometry or direction.
A body is always completely motionless relative to absolute space itself as proved by the results of the Michelson & Morley experiment. While a body is always at motionless relative to absolute space, it does possess tremendous inertial mass (energy/forces, relative to space: electromagnetic energy, gravitational energy, strong and weak nuclear forces). These are the fundamental forces of nature that control and guide all matter and energy within space. The body's relativistic inertial mass depends on its energy level relative to space itself, ("space energy level").
"Space energy level" is the energy level of a body relative to absolute space itself (relativistic inertial mass) with the inertial infinity being the ultimate highest energy level. The "rest" mass of the proton is variable, and depends on its (relativistic inertial mass) energy level relative to absolute space. Einstein came up with this idea and then preferred to use "rest" mass in his theories. It could be lower or higher relative to a proton's rest mass on Earth. At the "space energy level" of our solar system, a proton's rest mass is X UIMs (units of inertial mass M=F/A). In another planetary system in a slower part of the galaxy where the space energy level is only 1/2 that of our solar system its proton's inertial mass would only be 1/2(X) UIMs therefore its gravity would also be weaker in proportion to the weaker proton's inertial mass.
The inertial mass of a proton depends on its energy level, relative to absolute space, ("space energy level") "Inertial Infinity" is the highest energy level, relative to space, that a body can attain. A proton at a high "space energy level" (for example - 1/4 the speed of light) would be perceived as having more inertial mass then the same proton that is at a lower "space energy level" (at 1/8 the speed of light). For example the rest mass of a proton in a galaxy at 1/8 SOL would be less then a proton in a galaxy whose space energy level was at a 1/4 the SOL.
"Relativistic Inertial Mass" and "Space Energy Level" are synomynous and indicate the energy level of a body relative to Absolute Space.
Variable Gravity: The strength of gravity varys - it is proportional to inertial mass (space energy level). A body that is at a very low energy level - relative to absolute space (its has very little inertial relativistic inertial mass/energy (gravitational attraction, EME, strong and weak energy/forces). Inertia would not require as much force for the body to accelerate vectorally - relative to other bodies - or to rise to a higher "space energy level" - relative to space itself. Therefore its gravitational attraction would be weak. The same body at a higher "space energy level" (nearer the speed of light) has stronger gravitational force. Its inertial mass would be higher. Inertia would require more force be exerted for the body to accelerate vectorally relative to other bodies or rise to a higher space energy level (relative to space). Its gravitational power would be stronger because its inertial mass is greater. Its gravitational constant would be different. Newton's gravitational constant is not so constant! .
Matter - the fundamental particles of nature - by themselves have little mass or energy. It is only when a force is exerted on them do they began to become more massive - they began to rise to a higher space energy level. The higher the space energy level, the more massive the particles become. Therefore, since the gravitational attraction of a body depends on its mass (according to Newton) the body's gravitational attraction power will also began to rise. Evidence of this is observed when a particle is accelerated in a cyclotron. As the particles's velocity increases it requires more and more force to maintain the same rate of acceleration. The particle is rising to a higher energy level relative to space (space energy level). This is perceived as an increase in the particles's inertial mass/energy.
Cosmic Rays: Scientists are puzzled by the tremendous high energy cosmic rays possess. How can a single atomic nucleus gain such extreme energies? The simple answer is: it is emitted from a galaxy that is at a much higher "space energy level". It is traveling closer to the speed of light then our galaxy. Protons in these galaxies have a "rest" mass that is greater then the protons in our galaxy (their Gravity constant would also be higher then ours.) These are the galaxies that show much greater red shifts or a quasar galaxy. They may come from galaxies beyond our visible universe.
According to Newton's Gravity formula, A body's inertial mass is proportional to the body's gravitational power. Inertial mass of a body is determined by its energy level relative to universal space (space energy level). Therefore, the body's gravitational attraction power is proportional to its energy level relative to space (its inertial mass). Therefore gravity is variable and depends on the body's "space energy level". The energy level of the body relative to space.
Mass/energy: - the body's energy level relative to space itself, (the absolute frame of reference).
The "rest" inertial mass of a proton is not invariant, it varys in direct proportion to the 'space energy level' it is at. Einstein's E=MC2 represents the tremendous amount of energy a body of matter possesses relative to space - the "absolute frame of reference". This energy represents the four primary forces - not just radiation energy of the body. This inertial mass depends on its energy level relative to space itself, (space energy level) - NOT to other bodies.
Take a bullet for example. The bullet at rest has no vector momentum/energy relative to other bodies around it but it does have inertial mass, relative to space. When we fire the bullet from a gun it gains tremendous kinetic energy as it accelerates out of the barrel, it also takes on a very tiny additional inertial mass - relative to space itself (a scalar energy). Its space energy level rises a very tiny amount. When the bullet hits an object both the vector momentum and the inertial mass energies are transferred to the object and the bullet returns to its original energies. The point is that the bullet, whether at rest or moving always has two energies - one relative to other bodies (vector) and one relative to space (scalar).
The inertial mass of a body is not invariant, it depends on the 'space energy level' of the body. As more and more force is exerted on a particle in a cyclotron it rises to an ever higher energy level - relative to space (its inertial mass increases). Relative to other bodies (such as the stationary cyclotron) its vector velocity momentum energy motion increases greatly.
The Constancy of the Speed of Light.
This concept can also be applied to when a particle emits a photon. The particle must be considered alone in space (scalar - having no direction or motion) - no other body is considered. The photon will always speed away from the emitting particle at the speed of light - the maximum energy level that a body can achieve in the universe. The photon is pure energy, it has no inertial mass so it will always travel at the speed of light in space (Inertial Infinity).
When a partcle emits a ray of light, only the emitting body and space itself is considered. It makes no difference how fast the emitting particle is traveling relative to other particles - it is motionless relative to space itself (although it "space energy level" can vary and this may effect the emitting particle's ability to emit a photon). No matter what direction (relative to other bodies) the photon is emitted, the photon will always travel away from the emitting body, in space, at the speed of light (inertial infinity).
Inertial infinity: the speed of light, is the maximum energy level that space will allow. Photons always travel at this level, in space. Since our planet is it at a certain space energy level (SEL) our measure of the speed of light will be different from a planet in another galaxy that is at a higher or lower space energy level.
It would be interesting to find out what space energy level our solar system is actually at. We certainly have very strong inertial mass and gravitational force. There is an immense amount of energy in our nuclear bombs. Matter in our solar system's area of the galaxy is at a space energy level that made it possible for the solar system to form. Are we at 1/4 or 1/2 inertial infinity or what "space energy level" are we actually at? Is our energy level increasing or falling or in a stable state? It may be possible to determine this if we measure any change in the speed of light over a long period of time.
Absolute Space: itself has no direction, or geometry (Euclidean or Riemmanian). When you speak of coordinates or manifolds you are not speaking of space itself you are speaking of points or lines within space - not absolute space itself. Space does not curve because a body does not move relative to space. There is no Fitzgeral-Lorentz contraction nor space-time relative to space itself. The inertial mass of a body depends on its "space energy level". When a body emits a photon only the body and its space energy level are considered - the motion of the body is not considered..
Isaac Newton's first law of motion, the Law of Inertia states - "A body at rest tends to remain at rest and a body in motion tends to continue in motion in a straight line except in so far as it is acted upon by a disturbing force".
(In motion relative to what?). Relative to other bodies? Yes! Relative to space itself? No! A body does not move relative to space itself, as the Michelson-Morley experiment has indicated.
Inertia: Where does "inertia" come from?? Inertia is a characteristic of absolute space that requires a force be exerted on a body to change its space energy level, either vectorally (relative to other bodies or reference frames) or scalar (relative to space itself).
Inertia is a fundamental law of nature that requires a force be exerted on a body to accelerate the body, relative to other bodies and since the body does not accelerate relative to space itself (nothing moves relative to space) this "energy" manifests itself as an increase in the inertial mass of the body. A scalar (nondirectional) mass/energy of the body. At Earth's "space energy level" a body of matter contains a tremendous amount of this scalar mass/energy which we perceive as the inertial "rest" mass of the body.
The Inertial Requirement of a body is the amount of force that space requires be exerted, on the body, in order to accelerate that body at a certain rate of acceleration and raise its inertial mass by a certain amount. Remember, a body always has two forms of energy - kenetic, relative to other bodies (frames of reference) and inertial mass, relative to space (the absolute frame of reference).
Inertia is not a reactive force. Inertia is a requirement of absolute space. It is absolute (universal) space itself that, requires a force be exerted on a body, for it to accelerate to either a higher or lower space energy level. This is the "Inertial Requirement of Space". A body does not resist a change in its motion nor does Inertia simultaneously release its hold on a body as a force is exerted.
Space simply requires a force be exerted on a body for it to accelerate, relative to other bodies, or to change to another energy level, relative to space (space energy level), otherwise its motion, relative to other frames of reference, and inertial mass, relative to space, will remain the same.
Since an accelerating body does not move relative to absolute space the only thing it can do, when a force is exerted on it, is to RISE TO A HIGHER "SPACE ENERGY LEVEL" such as observed in a cyclotron (particle accelerator). Since Newton's gravity depends on inertial mass, as a body's inertial mass increases (space energy level rises), its gravitational attraction will also increase. This means that gravitational attraction between bodies can vary depending on the space energy level they are at. Gravity becomes stronger as its inertial mass increases. The gravitational constant (G) is not so constant after all!
Ref: Cyclotron mass - "As a particle moves through an accelerator and picks up energy, some of that energy is converted to mass. The more force that is exerted on the particle, the more massive it becomes. At low velocities, this mass increase is modest. A particle moving at one-fifth the speed of light, for example, gains only two percent over its original "rest" mass. But at velocities that are easily attained in large cyclotrons, the mass increase becomes very large."
Therefore, since inertial mass of the particles is the governing factor in Newton's Law of Gravitation, as the inertial mass increases, the gravitational power of the particles also increase.
In Newton's equation for inertial mass (F=MA), (M) is the body's inertial mass, the body's energy level, relative to absolute space. The body (M) would require X amount of (F)force to (A)accelerate the body at a certain rate, relative to other bodies. An extremely small amount of this force would be converted to the body's inertial mass, (E=MC2) relative to absolute space. This newly acquired inertial mass would also create a slightly stronger gravitational attraction, according to Newton's law of gravity.
Eintein's formula: E = MC2 (E) represents the energy level of a body relative to space (space energy level). (M) represents the inertial mass of the body. (C) represents inertial infinity (the speed of light).
We know from experience that as a body accelerates toward the speed of light, more and more force must be exerted on the body in order to maintain the same rate of acceleration. For example, as a particle accelerates toward the speed of light in a cyclotron, it requires more and more force be exerted, in order to maintain its acceleration. We perceive this property to be the body's inertial mass. More force is required, therefore its inertial mass becomes greater. Absolutely nothing is added to the body as its space energy level rises, space simply requires more force be exerted to maintain the same acceleration, therefore its inertial mass is perceived to be greater.
The mass of a body of matter is an indication of the energy level the body is at, relative to space. A certain body of matter, for example, could have a large or small inertial mass depending on its energy level relative to space ("space energy level").
A body's "Space Energy Level", determines the mass of the body. An astronaut traveling in a rocket at 1/2 the speed of light would have a much larger inertial mass then the same astronaut traveling in a rocket traveling at 1/4 the speed of light. The "inertial requirement of space" would require a greater force be exerted to accelerate the astronaut in any direction. His inertial mass would be greater even though the amount of matter in his body is exactly the same. The astronaut's body simply rose to a higher energy level in space.
We can see from this example that inertial mass of a body is not a static condition, it does vary as conditions change. No matter how fast a body travels, relative to other bodies, it does not move relative to space, only its inertial mass changes.
Scientists sometime confuse this change of inertial mass with time dilation. "By synchronizing two atomic clocks, then flying one for extended amounts of time in an airplane and comparing its time reading with the stationary clock, scientists have discovered a dilation of a few millionths of a second for the airborne clock."
They thought they had witnessed time dilation. Actually what had happened was that the acceleration of the plane throughout the flight had raised the inertial mass of the clock in the airplane very slightly causing the discrepency in the synchronization of the clocks. They had in effect, witnessed an experiment using the absolute frame reference of the airborne clock's, space energy level. The acceleration of the airplane had effected its inertial mass, relative to absolute space.
Stronger gravity makes it possible for new stars to form. This is why stars are created in the outlying portions of rotating spiral galaxies where the velocity is greater and therefore the "space energy level" is higher (inertial mass is greater) and therefore the gravitational attraction is greater. The gravity of the protostars becomes strong enough to produce the heat for fusion to take place and the proto stars to ignite into new born stars. Stars are not created in eliptical galaxies, they were probably created when the galaxy was still a spiral galaxy.
Since the gravity is actually stronger in the outlying area of spiral galaxies, due to the higher space energy level in their outlying areas there is no need for "dark matter" to hold them together.
According to Newton's, Law of Gravitation, the inertial mass (M) of a body determines the amount of gravitational force the body will possess.
Gravity= (G)(constant)X (M1)X (M2) divided by (D2) (distance squared).
Therefore, Inertial Requirement (Newton's Law of Inertia) F=(M)A is responsible for creating and determining the strength of gravitational force a body will possess.
The Law of Inertia is the most fundamental law of nature. It is the law of nature that controls matter and energy within the universe. It determines a body's inertial mass and the amount of gravitational attraction the body will possess.
We have just seen that a body's inertial mass and gravitational power increase as it rises to a higher "Space Energy Level", (its Relativistic Inertial Mass). Conversely, a body with a very low space energy level will have a very small Inertial Requirement (very little Relativistic Inertial Mass) and therefore very little Gravitational attraction.
This is the reason stars form only in spiral galaxies. Intergalactic star dust does not have enough mass (be at a high enough space energy level) and therefore, it lacks the gravitational power to form a star. It is only when a spiral galaxy passes by, sweeping up and accelerating this intergalactic matter, will its inertial mass (space energy level rise enough) and therefore gravitational attraction become strong enough to form a proto-star and compress it sufficiently to began a nuclear fusion reaction.
15. Inertia, A Requirement of Space.
Part 2. New concepts in Cosmology, Physics, and Astronomy.
Absolute Space - Space Energy Level of Matter.

UPDATE: Fundamentally, there is no safe way to sunbathe, a tan is not protective, it is not healthy, irrespective of the natural vitamin D boost you get through exposing your sun to the skin and regardless of the feelgood factor of sunbathing.
The UKs Health Research Forum, a pressure group opposing the blanket ban on sunbathing that other organisations are attempting to implement, has just published its second report Sunlight, Vitamin D, & Health (Edited by Oliver Gillie).
The report covers a conference held at the House of Commons in November 2005 and endeavours to devour some of the claims made by sunscreen manufacturers and cancer charities about the nature of sunlight and its effects on our health. The main argument HRF makes is that safe sunbathing is good for you, and more to the point, not getting enough sun exposure is actually potentially very harmful. Of course, it does not suggest getting sunburn.
Dermatologists always say that tanning is bad because sunlight damages DNA of skin cells and kills them, Gillie told me, The way they say it makes it seem quite scary. But it doesnt surprise me that skin cells die in the process of protecting us against the sun bowel cells die protecting us against food.
speeds up when the skin is exposed to UV. I contend that a tan is part of a normal process and not pathological as dermatologists have been telling us, he adds, And having a tan is definitely associated with protection against cancer e.g. prostate cancer, and there is evidence for other cancers too.
Why midday? The sun is strongest in the middle of the day and so maximum vitamin D synthesis occurs in the shortest time. This is important especially in the UK climate where its often overcast and UV intensity can be low. More to the point, ones lunch hour is a great time to get out of the workplace on a sunny day (unless youre a gardener of course, in which case you may want to sit in darkened room to eat your sandwiches), and that can have psychosociological benefits too.
Gillie adds, Gardening is very good you need to get as much sun/vit D as you can to see you through the winter, he told me, My suggestion is to protect your face with a hat much of the time because the face is otherwise always exposed but be sure to take your shirt off and wear shorts whenever it is hot and avoid burning.
The full report is available as a pdf (912kb) here. I raised the issue of sunshine safety and cancer prevention in a previous write-up sunshine, but organisations such as Cancer Research UK and RAFT (the Restoration of Appearance and Function Trust) contend that sunlight is the major risk factor for skin cancer.
UPDATE: New York Times and others are reporting on research this week that suggests that some types of sunscreen may do more harm than good, especially if they give users a false sense of security about sun exposure. Other recent work suggests that in the laboratory, at least, UVB (ultraviolet-B rays; 315280 nm) do more damage to the DNA of skin cells (and so putatively lead to melanomas) than UVA (ultraviolet-A; 400315 nm, lower energy per photon). The difference between UVA and UVB is simply a matter of wavelength/frequency of the ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation. The longer the wavelength (shorter frequency), the lower the energy.

Non-news item of the day: soda is terrible for you.
Not only has it been linked to type-2 diabetes, heart disease, obesity and a slew of other health problems, when you take a sip of soda you're essentially drinking liquified sugar. There have recently been moves to implement a soda tax in the United States, which has drinkers of soda feeling very attacked by the government.
In Mexico, one of the biggest consumers of Coca-Cola, a 10% soda tax was implemented; in one year, reports found that soda consumption had fallen 12%. This was major news in a world where 184,000 deaths were caused by increased rates of type-2 diabetes, heart disease and cancer, all linked to sugary drinks. The move in the United States is to increase this 10% tax even higher, pushing people who choose to drink soda to fork over more money. As undeniably healthy of an initiative this is, does the government have the right to police and regulate the way you legally choose to destroy your body?
This argument runs deeper than soda, stretching to other things like alcohol and tobacco products. Although all these products are legally sold and available, they've been regulated by the government so we all don't go insane and start drinking and chain smoking to our heart's content. Back in the 1940s, cigarette prevalence began to grow with fervent advertising, including the army's rations actually containing cigarettes. Although the first study by Dr. Alton Ochsner and Michael DeBakey linking cigarette smoking to lung cancer was published in 1946, the push back against tobacco wouldn't begin to take hold for decades later.
Now, it is hard to drive four blocks without seeing a billboard describing the harmful effects of smoking. There is push back on where cigarettes can be advertised and the prices of packs have been taxed to hell depending on which city and state you live in. Although we all know how terrible cigarettes are (including how bad they are for those around us), it is still the choice of many to continue smoking.
However, studies have reported that since the 1964 definitive paper by the Surgeon General was published linking lung cancer to cigarette smoking, there have been a reported 8 million lives saved. This shows a marked trend in how the government is able to step in and steer the general opinion through advertising and taxation to move people towards a healthier lifestyle, much like the soda tax in Mexico saved people from heart failure.
The government has a clear tendency to tax the vices of America, and most would view this as opportunistic. Why wouldn't they tax the things they know people are going to continue to buy at a higher rate? In the minds of most of the public, this is a way for them to gain funds by profiting off the addictions of America.
On the other side of the argument, perhaps it is a way of our government protecting us from ourselves, making prices higher in order to make us think twice about these vices that are fun and delicious, but wreak havoc on our bodies. Some argue that these taxes put a greater distance between the middle class, the lower class and the upper class, but perhaps they are also acting as a reminder that these products are not where we should be funneling our money.
When it comes down to it, the sad reality is that the general public either doesn't care or still doesn't know the harmful effects that these items have on our bodies. Although it is truly a disgrace that the government allows the sale of these items at all, the fact of the matter is that we need someone controlling our intake of these toxic chemicals. Cigarettes and soda are not sure-fire killers of people, but they definitely aren't doing the general well-being of the public any favors.
If the government wanted to truly enact change, they would make steps towards completely banning these products; although that does seep into the discussion of governments hyper-policing our lives. A soda tax would make people who need to cut back on sugary drinks think twice about the purchase of them, much like the insane taxes and price hikes of tobacco products has diminished numbers of people who would otherwise be heavy smokers.
This issue isn't completely about the public being able to decide what to do with their bodies, but it is about the fact that we as a human race are bound to self-destruct when left to our own devices. These taxes put us in a vice when it comes to how we self-soothe, but perhaps that is exactly the vice we need to be in for our own good.

Your body has been given the signal to prepare to respond to a threat. If a real physical danger were present, you would be able to protect yourself by attack or retreat. When the emergency was over, an all-clear signal would be given, and your body would relax and return to its normal state.
In our modern times, we are constantly dealing with stress. Constant mental stress keeps our bodies in constant tension, which itself becomes a form of stress. You can handle stress by learning to cope with thoughts and events so they no longer are stressful. You can also learn to relax. When you practice relaxation, you are giving the all-clear signal. As you become better at giving the signal, you are able to trigger the relaxation response so that your body can return to its normal state.
Defiant children influence their parents to feel tension a lot of the time. When they dont get what they want, they feel threatened, typically experiencing the same fight or flight response mentioned above. Unfortunately, for defiant children, this response seems to appear as fight or fight even more.
When you are tense, your breathing can become shallow and rapid. In fact, most of us do not breathe properly, tense or not. Improper breathing robs you of oxygen that purifies your body as well as helps your body produce energy.
Fortunately, learning to breathe properly is not difficult. Find a comfortable place to lie down. Place your hands on your abdomen just below your ribcage. Begin breathing slowly and deeply. If you are breathing properly, you will feel the expansion in the abdominal area before your ribcage expands. Spend five to ten minutes several times a day practicing your deep breathing. You will notice that as you become more proficient, your breathing will improve during your normal activities.
The beauty of this deep-breathing technique is that you can call upon an abbreviated form to use any time youre feeling angry and want to yell. Taking a few deep breaths is a wonderful way to soothe yourself and set the stage to use other helpful strategies in conjunction with your breathing. And if you find yourself in an argument, you can also use it to calm down. Deep breathing can be used to prevent, lessen, and recover from emotional overloads and outbursts.

The Principle of Orthogonal Design (abbreviated POOD) is a principle of database design, which seek to prevent databases from being too complicated or redundant. Simply put, it says that no two relations in a relational database should be defined in such a way that they can represent the same facts. As with database normalization, POOD serves to eliminate uncontrolled storage redundancy.
Generate Orthogonal Design generates a data file containing an orthogonal main-effects design that permits the statistical testing of several factors without testing every combination of factor levels. This design can be displayed with the Display Design procedure, and the data file can be used by other SPSS procedures, such as Conjoint.
To reduce the levels of option available, we select profiles more efficiently. One of the most common experimental designs is known as an orthogonal fractional factorial design an orthogonal design for short. Such designs are conceptually similar to the popular Sudoku puzzles where players are asked to place the numbers 1 through 9 in a grid such that no number appears twice in a row, in a column, or in a 3x3 sub-box. In an orthogonal design, the levels of the features are chosen such that, for each pair of features, say a and b, the high level a appears equally often in profiles that have a high level b as in profiles that have a low level of b, and vice versa. Such experimental designs are extremely efficient for estimating part worth for features. These designs do not come without a cost. They confound interactions. For example, with such designs we can only estimate main effects of each feature. This is equivalent to an assumption that the part worth of having high levels of both a and b equals the part-worth of a high level of a plus the part worth of a high level of b. If there were an interaction, the value of having high levels on both a and b might by synergistically more valuable than the value of having a high level of a and the value of having a high level of b.
Orthogonal designs are not the only fractional factorial designs. We can create designs that require more profiles, but which allow us to estimate some interactions. The study of experimental designs is beyond the scope of this note. However, it is useful to illustrate an orthogonal design for 16 features that requires only 32 profiles.

Starting from the primary education the first thing many of the teachers start to teach is writing for the students and after a session of teaching and training they go to see whether these students poses a good writing capacity and whether they are capable to follow other subjects many examinations are also held to see whether they can write and understand the requirements that asked to fulfill in exam papers. These are done at the lowest stage in order to take the students to a better phase and to a better level in writing as many of the jobs and careers to day need writing. Furthermore it has been noticed with the development of computers, software and other technical developments, typing are also necessary just the way writing is. This is the reason why information technology is a compulsory subject for many students in almost every school.
In order to train and make interest to students , mainly universities conduct programs to students on writing deeds, cv writing services, writing agreements and so on,. These are important to their subject matters as well because no matter whom you become at a point of time, every person is required to write at least a letter to a public authority or so. Therefore the importance of writing and paper work is priceless. Every person should understand that paper work must be done with confi9dence and accurate knowledge therefore one should be trained from the primary stage to become exerts in writing.
There are many tutorials conducted in universities to teach for the ones who are interested as they become important at a point of life.

Hello colleagues all over the world! This is basically a gap-fill text about dangerous animals. Usually I give them a little input about the animals before I give them the worksheet. I always show them 4 pictures via projector: saltwater crocodile, bird spider, Africanized honey bee and a great white shark. Then I aks the pupils what these animals have in common. Answer - theyre all dangerous animals. After that I give them a short input about these animals accompanied bythe worksheet they shuld complete. Great white shark: it can reach a length of 7m. It only attacks people when it mistakes them for a seal. Saltwater crocodile: it can also reach a length of 7m. A lot more people are dying of crocodile attacks than of shark attacks. Bird spider: they are poisonous. But most of them are not very aggressive only when they feel threatened. Africanized honey bee: it is a crossbreed between a regional honey bee and an African honey bee. Theyre also called killerbees because they are aggressive and can sometimes chase their victim for miles. I hope you like it!

ROMAN GLASS has been found in a recently opened Japanese tomb dating to the 5th century, as per an article in this weeks Asahi Shimbum (courtesy of Adrian Murdochs fine blog).
The ornamental glass (a beautiful cobalt blue plate and a delicate golden bowl seen above) is believed to have made its way to Japan through Sassanid Persia. Scientific analysis suggests that both items were created by Roman artisans working within the Empire at some point in the 3rd century. While its unknown precisely when and how they made their way to Japan, they were buried along with the denizen of tumulus #126, within a cluster of ancient graves dating to the late 5th century.
So what does it have to do with the Age of Justinian, this turbulent time when the light of Rome still shined in the East as darkness fell in the West?
In these fragile pieces of blue and gold glass, fantastically preserved, we have an example of how far Rome reached even in an era in which common wisdom says Rome had already fallen.
The truth, as found in this burial mound in Nara Prefecture suggests something very different.
While Roman trade with Japan was indeed rare, the Romans (and their trading partners and sometimes enemies, the Persians) traded actively with the East. Most of this trade centered around silk that could only be sourced from China at this time. Roman gold moved east, and Chinese silk moved West. That river of gold sustained the Persians.
But there would come a day, not long after our blue glass plate was buried in Japan, when an exceptional man, a missionary, took an extraordinary risk by smuggling silk worms out of the Forbidden City in a hollow-tipped cane. When he arrived at the Emperor Justinians court in Constantinople he irrevocably changed the course of history....

Protective device Forpost-1" is a reliable and convenient way to protect people from the negative influence of torsion (information) component of electromagnetic radiation emitted by monitors of personal computers, TV sets, other electronic equipment.
Recent studies have confirmed that the torsion (information) component of electromagnetic radiation TV sets (monitors of personal computers, other electronic equipment) is the most significant factor in the negative impact on human health.
Thanks to the development of electronic engineering a levelof electromagnetic radiation monitors, TV sets is substantially reduced. However, despite the fact that the level of electromagnetic radiation, such as LCD TV sets (monitors) is significantly lower than that of the TV (monitor) with a cathode-ray tube (CRT), the "power" of the torsion (information) component of LCD TV sets (monitors) is almost the same as that of the TV (monitor) CRT.
Prolonged exposure to torsion (information) component of radiation TVs, PC monitors can lead to well-being decline may be the cause of headaches, extreme fatigue, cause blurred vision and memory, worsening of sleep; lead to a reduction in the level of leucocytes and lymphocytes in the blood, reduction of immunity; adversely affect the endocrine and reproductive systems.
Most sensitive to the effects of torsion (information) fields children and pregnant women.
Device "Forpost-1" is a generator of the right static torsion field. In the interaction of the right torsion field generated by the device "Forpost-1", with an adverse effect on human health left torsion field computer monitor (TV, other electronic devices), a mutual cancellation of the fields created biosafety area as front of the monitor (TV), and around it. Created by the device "Forpost 1" bioibezopasnaya zone is a barrier to the emergence of Energy relations between the emitter and the field of man, and as a result, prevents a negative impact on human health.
Device "Forpost-1" also can be used to neutralize the negative impact of electronics of Car, trolley buses, subway trains.

Difference between revisions of "Wikitravel:How to create a map"
This page gives detailed instructions for creating Wikitravel maps using OpenStreetMap data.
This easy three-step process can be used to create simple city street maps.
This process can be used to create full-fledged Wikitravel maps with automatically placed and indexed icons for sights, restaurants, hotels, etc. It may seem a little unwieldy or intimidating the first time around, but almost all the work is really done for you, and it's infinitely faster than trying to draw your own map. So give it a shot!
Prerequisites: Access to a machine running modern flavors of Unix, preferably Linux and most preferably Ubuntu. Also, the Wikitravel destination that you want to map must already be using the new listings tag format.
Note that in the fairly near future these scripts should be running as a Mapmaker bot which you will be able to interact with using a category.
Please note that spaces in the article name should be replaced by underscores (_).
When you are configuring an article for map generation for the first time you have a choice to make about how you configure the map's bounding box.
Each method has advantages: if you draw a relation it will be rendered in the map as a slightly lighter grey, giving the destination part of your map a little more visual relief. If you configure exact lat-long coordinates the scripts will run a bit faster. If you want both advantages you can use both methods.
The Osmarender scripts now take their configuration information for a given destination from the Wikitravel article itself. This means that all configuration data for any particular map project is publicly available under a version of the CC by-sa license.
The following is a quick reference for mapping Wikitravel listings to OSM map features. The complete list is available here.
Note that these tags are used by OSM only and are, at the moment and in general, not needed for Wikitravel map generation.
If this is the first time you're exporting this city, this is a good moment to verify that the map is readable when printed. Load the map in GIMP (or another bitmap editor) and set Image > Print size... to be 6.875in wide and 3.95in high, then print it out on your printer (in grayscale mode). If you can read the street names without squinting, it's fine.
If Inkscape is properly installed the scripts will run it in the background. Next they will run the Gimp to reduce the colorspace of the image for the web. You should now find a PNG image in the directory named for your article, and ready for upload to Wikitravel shared. You should examine it just in case.
Congratulations -- your map is done!
If you lack access to a computer with a Linux operating system, you will have to go through several more manual steps to generate a map from OSM data.
First, go to OpenStreetMap , zoom in on the area you wish to map, and then click the export tab. In this window, select "Mapnik Image" with an SVG format.
Choosing the appropriate scale depends to a degree on the size of the area being mapped, but in general you can get away with a low resolution export (which will decrease the file size of the exported SVG)1:20,000 is not a bad resolution to start with. If the file size of the SVG export is too large, your computer may grind to a halt when modifying it in Inkscape .
The first and simplest thing you can do to reduce that filesize and make the SVG more manageable is to delete the light gray background object, which for some reason tends to include thousands of extraneous nodes. Be sure to vacuum definitions (File Vacuum defs) after making such a significant deletion, in order to further reduce the file size.
Layers separating content into layers will make your SVG more versatile and easier to manage (turning off complex layers will help speed up Inkscape). Create a layer for the OSM import, then add empty layers above it for streets, street names, etc.
This is where things get tricky. You must select all objects of one type (e.g., red-colored streets), combine them into one path (Ctrl+K), and then change the color to match the usual Wikitravel scheme. To select all paths/objects of one category, use the find operation. Red-colored streets are easy to select, for example, simply enter "stroke:#eb9799" to the style box in the find operation to select all red-colored streets. Combine the streets into one path, then move them to a dedicated streets layer, then turn that layer off. Repeat for all types of streets. To find unique attributes for the various street types, select one path, then open the XML editor (Shift+Ctrl+X), examine the style attribute, and find a unique value to enter into the find box. To match Wikitravel color standards, change the stroke colors to white (although freeways/highways can be colored red to distinguish them from city streets).
You will notice that most paths in the SVG have "shadow" paths behind them. Delete these paths. Also, selecting the street paths you have combined, then simplifying them (Ctrl-L) can reduce the file size and complexity of the SVG a good deal, usually without sacrificing much accuracy. At low resolutions, OSM SVGs display the street paths rather wide; select the combined street paths and change the stroke style width by an appropriate percent.
The colors of other objects, such as parks, buildings, and water areas, should also be changed to conform to Wikitravel standards. This can be done in the same manner, using the find function to select all objects of a specific type, and then using the fill function to change the color (or pattern). You can obtain standard colors and patterns here.
The final tasks are much more simple, but are time intensive. What is left is to add travel icons, a key, title, compass, scale, etc. These tasks are described at Wikitravel:How to draw a map.

It is easier to assess and prune deciduous trees in winter, when they are leafless.
When the leaves of a deciduous tree have fallen, take a look at its overall shape. Look for stems that are badly placed, or those growing too far down the trunk. This tree has an awkward stem growing from the base that must be removed. First, remove any dead and damaged wood. Then use a pruning saw to make a straight cut through any branches growing from the base of the tree.
Prune thin stems with loppers or pruners, taking them back to 12 in (2 cm) from the ring of slight swelling where the stem and trunk meet, known as the branch collar.
Thick branches, and those that are likely to tear, are cut in stages. First, cut under the stem, a short distance from the trunk. Cut about a quarter of the way through the underside of the branch.
Make a second cut above the lower one, and aim to join the two. Be sure your tools are sharp to prevent snagging.
Even if you have taken great care, a heavy branch may still snap off, but it doesnt matter at this point, since this is not the final cut. Dont worry if the cut snags as it falls away.
Remove the stub by using the technique outlined in steps 3 and 4. Make your final cut just slightly away from the branch collar.

Researchers are inching closer toward the development of a treatment and cure for dengue fever, which affects an estimated 400 million people each year.
Caused by a mosquito-borne virus, dengue fever causes severe, flu-like symptoms, and in particularly bad cases that are caused by repeated infection, the disease can be fatal.
In a study published in the journal Science, researchers in the U.S. and Singapore describe the discovery of a potent human antibody that neutralizes dengue type 2, an aggressive version of the virus.
Discovered in the blood of patients stricken with dengue, the monoclonal antibody is a protein that zaps one of the four types of the fever.
James Crowe, director of the Vaccine Center at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Tennessee and a co-author of the study, said the monoclonal antibody stops infection in humans at the cellular level.
The virus injects its own genes in the cell to make more of itself," he said. "And this antibody actually stapes the virus closed so it cant do that injecting of its own genes into cells.
In experiments with mice, the human monoclonal antibody easily killed dengue type 2.
Crowe said he thought the discovery would lead to a drug to treat all four types of dengue fever.
We believe that it is possible to find similar antibodies" that would work against the other dengue types, he said. "So, if we actually move forward in developing a therapeutic for humans, it probably would be a mixture or cocktail of four antibodies, and this would be one of the antibodies that corresponds to one of the four viruses.
Crowe said researchers are in talks with a number of drug companies interested in using the discovery to develop a cure for dengue fever.
Note: An earlier version of this story indicated 400 people, rather than 400 million people, are afffected by dengue fever. VOA regrets the error.

"Arthur Smith was born in Cuba to Jamaican parents in 1917. In 1920, his family settled in Brooklyn, NY, where he honed his artistic talents. He was awarded a scholarship to Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art...Mr. Smith earned his degree in 1940, and instantly began taking jewelry making classes at NYU...In 1946, he opened his first shop on Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village. Soon after he relocated to 140 West Fourth and that move was his best move. Not only was he selling his pieces from his own store front; he was selling to boutiques in Boston, Chicago and San Francisco...
Mr. Smith was experiencing huge success. By the 1950s, his unique jewelry pieces were featured in Harpers Bazaar, Vogue and The New Yorker;...[this] press coverage gave him prestige amongst notable actors, singers, and dancers.In 1960, his notoriety flourished. He began using silver more in his growing collection. But one of his biggest achievements was designing a brooch for Eleanor Roosevelt and designing cuff links for Duke Ellington that included notes from Ellingtons 1930 song 'Mood Indigo.'
In 1969, he was recognized with an exhibition at the New York museum of Art and Design (then Museum of Contemporary Crafts). Art Smith closed his shop in 1979, and died of heart failure in 1982.
His artistic style can still be seen in jewelry today." (McDonald, February 19, 2013) His work is truely an inspiration.

A safety information profile is presented for factors contributing to slips, trips, and falls on working surfaces and industrial stairs. The primary Standard Industrial Classifications include 1541, 1629 and 1752, although these accidents are common to all industries. Accidents involving falls on the same level, falls from one elevation to another, and arrested falls are discussed. Potential contributing hazards, such as floor surfaces, slip surfaces, and personal factors are listed by type of hazard. Hazard controls are described. Injury and illness statistics are presented and industry trends are mentioned. Existing standards are listed, and names and addresses of industry associations and other interested parties are provided. It is concluded that current standards vary in dimension and address only fall restraint and physical hazards. More detailed, well designed studies that include evaluations of personal factors contributing to falls are recommended.

Healthy gums arent proven to prevent atherosclerotic vascular disease, nor will treating periodontal disease clearly reduce risk of heart attack or stroke, according to a scientific statement from the American Heart Association (AHA).
The two conditions are linked through common risk factors without convincing evidence for a causal relationship, the statement cautioned in the May 22 issue of Circulation: Journal of the American Heart Association.
Patients and providers are increasingly presented with claims that periodontal disease treatment strategies offer atherosclerotic vascular disease protection; these claims are often endorsed by professional and industrial stakeholders, Peter B. Lockhart, DDS, and colleagues wrote, warning that such assertions are unwarranted.
The AHA scientific statement stemmed from a systematic review by a group of cardiologists, dentists, and infectious disease specialists and was endorsed by the American Dental Association and World Heart Federation.
A link between oral health and cardiovascular disease has been proposed for more than a century, it noted.
Pockets of bacteria around the teeth in diseased gums are thought to contribute to systemic inflammation and thus to atherosclerotic disease. Periodontal disease also lets oral bacteria enter the blood during chewing and tooth brushing, which may contribute to vascular disease more directly.
Is there a link between periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease?
Researchers and government agencies continue to investigate the possible relationship between periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease. Some studies have shown that bacteria in the mouth that are involved in the development of periodontal disease can move into the bloodstream and cause an elevation in C-reactive protein, a marker for inflammation in the blood vessels. These changes can, in turn, increase the risk of heart disease and stroke.
There is research to both support and refute the possible link between periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease, and more studies are needed to see how the two may be linked. Regardless of the relationship, maintaining optimal oral hygiene is an important component of your overall health.
With the intense interest and active research, a strong causative link likely would have been found already if there were one, Lockhart argued in a press release.
Although a contribution of periodontal disease to atherosclerotic vascular disease is biologically plausible, periodontal and cardiovascular diseases share multiple risk factors that are prevalent and powerful promoters of disease, including tobacco use, diabetes mellitus, and age, the scientific statement noted.
Several theories exist to explain the link between periodontal disease and heart disease. One theory is that oral bacteria can affect the heart when they enter the blood stream, attaching to fatty plaques in the coronary arteries (heart blood vessels) and contributing to clot formation. Coronary artery disease is characterized by a thickening of the walls of the coronary arteries due to the buildup of fatty proteins. Blood clots can obstruct normal blood flow, restricting the amount of nutrients and oxygen required for the heart to function properly. This may lead to heart attacks.
Another possibility is that the inflammation caused by periodontal disease increases plaque build up, which may contribute to swelling of the arteries.
Researchers have found that people with periodontal disease are almost twice as likely to suffer from coronary artery disease as those without periodontal disease.
Periodontal disease can also exacerbate existing heart conditions. Patients at risk for infective endocarditis may require antibiotics prior to dental procedures. Your periodontist and cardiologist will be able to determine if your heart condition requires use of antibiotics prior to dental procedures.
But lack of a causative relationship to vascular disease isnt free license to neglect oral health, Ronald Burakoff, MDM, MPH, chair of dental medicine at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, N.Y., warned in an email to reporters.
Managing inflammatory issues, such as chronic gum disease, is part of a heart healthy lifestyle, agreed Suzanne Steinbaum, DO, a preventive cardiologist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Lockharts group reviewed 537 studies on the topic, most observational in design and thus unable to prove causality.
They found plenty of evidence for an association between periodontal disease and atherosclerotic vascular disease.

Imagine living in a place thousands feet deep down the earth, where water is three times more salty than seawater and where there is complete darkness. High pressure, high temperature, and high salinity. Even though it seems impossible for life to grow in such conditions, Frackibacter does it.
Frackibacter is a new genus of micro-organism living in wells left from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, discovered by Ohio State microbiologists and their colleagues.
The discovery that Frackibacter helps produce methane which can be burned as a natural-gas fuel is significant to Ohios energy industry, because almost half the state has shale rock, a deep underground rock in which hydraulic fracturing wells are operated.
The discovery might also contribute to the entire energy industry, since researchers estimated that Frackibacter might commonly exist in hydraulic fracturing wells across the U.S.
Micheal Wilkins, an assistant professor in earth science and microbiology who helped lead the study, said Frackibacter one of 31 microbes that OSU researchers detected in two hydraulic fracturing wells they studied.
This is an organism that we havent seen before in any other ecosystems, Wilkins said.
Wilkins and his team discovered that Frackibacter has the potential to increase the energy output of hydraulic fracturing wells through a chemical process.
During the process, Frackibacter helps convert compounds into food for methanogens, a type of chemical that generates natural gas such as methane.
While most methane was formed millions years ago, this finding suggests that methane is also generated during this process, Wilkins said.
Even though researchers are not sure how much methane can be produced by Frackibacter, they pointed out that it at least has the potential to augment gas production.
Rebecca Daly, a research associate in microbiology, said it is possible to cause Frackibacter, along with other microbes, to generate more methane by stimulating the chemical process.
Future research could optimize system to stimulate that process, especially when the well stops giving natural gas thats from the shale formation itself, Daly said.
Mikayla Borton, a first-year graduate student studying environmental science, compared the two hydraulic fracturing wells in the research. Surprisingly, she said that even though they were thousands miles apart, they developed similar microbial communities where Frackibacter is found.
Researchers are not certain of where Frackibacter comes from, whether from the shale itself or generated by hydraulic fracturing process. Future research will examine Frackibacters origin and more of its applications.

The burgeoning electronic content in automobiles has allowed numerous innovations to help improve the safety and comfort of cars and at the same time optimize the overall cost of automobiles. This has given rise to the design of chips with high levels of integration and increasing embedded memory content, permitting a multitude of functions within a single device.
However, the rapid growth in automotive electronics has presented multiple challenges in the manufacture, maintenance, and support of such systems. Because of harsh environment and physical space restrictions, automotive electronic components should be designed for very high reliability, and easy support and maintenance. Yet another challenge is to achieve lower economies of scale for these high-volume products, by generating significant improvement in manufacturing yield, which is dominated by the embedded memory within the chip.
According to SAE (Society of Automotive Engineers) reports, the electronic content in automobiles is growing, and by year 2010 close to 40% of automobile costs will be in the electronics. Typical automotive electronics comprise multiple electronic control units (ECUs) to address various functions ranging from engine management, emission and safety controls to driver information systems, such as dashboard instrumentation and navigation controls. Safety and reliability of the electronics are of key importance since they operate in harsh environmental conditions-40 to 300C. This performance demands a robust design and manufacturing flow to ensure operation in such extreme conditions.
The automobile industry faces multiple challenges in the design, manufacture and service of electronic subsystems. Design and manufacturing engineering teams face conflicting requirements of minimizing the cost of design and manufacturing test while maintaining the highest quality of the product. Limited access to several of the electronics modules poses severe challenges to service technicians and increases maintenance costs.
Over the past decade, chip designers have started to adapt structured test methodologies to address some of these challenges. Built-in-self-test (BIST) is one of the key test methodologies deployed in many large designs to test both logic and embedded memory within the chip. It involves embedding BIST logic in the design to automatically generate the test and verify the design against manufacturing defects, thus avoiding completely external test generation.
Economical testing at every phase of the automotive electronics life cycle is critical and with BIST, test costs can be reduced considerably during manufacturing. BIST also helps in the field in terms of minimizing the maintenance overhead. For example, the ECUs can be programmed to run self-test (powered by the embedded BIST) periodically, which can be monitored on a control panel. This avoids the need to access each ECU, some of which could be in hard to reach areas of the automobile.
As the sophistication of automotive electronics increases, more and more intelligence is added, bringing more information to the dashboard. This means increasing embedded memory content in the electronics. Because embedded memories impact the overall yield of the chip quite dramatically, it is necessary to have a robust test and repair methodology to be able to produce high quality chips with optimal yield.
One way to obtain yield improvement in memories is to use redundant, or spare, elements during manufacturing repair. Historically, embedded memories have been self-testable but not repairable. Embedded memories can be repaired using adequate amounts and appropriate types of redundant elements for a given memory. However, determining what is adequate and appropriate for a given memory requires both memory design knowledge and failure history information for the process node under consideration.
This alone is a challenge, but providing the right redundant elements does not entirely solve the problem. Knowing how to detect and locate memory defects and allocate redundant elements requires manufacturing knowledge of defect distribution. With embedded logic, we can both test and repair memories with redundancy to improve the manufacturing yield.

Is dry, brittle, prone-to-breaking hair due to stress alone? It depends on your definition of stress, and your inclusion of hair care and lifestyle factors. Like any other health condition, researching one's medical history and personal habits can build awareness, inform actions and lead to a more complete picture of health.
Hairs begin underground, so to speak, beneath your scalp. Healthy root bulbs can better anchor and nurture the upper hair follicles. Each hair follicle produces a single hair. Your scalp hosts a veritable forest of follicles, given that an average head has 100,000 hairs, of which some 100 are shed each day. New hairs may grown 1/4" - 1/2" per month, but they only last between two and six years. So even under the most benign circumstances, the health of your tresses is continuously fluctuating. Moreover, nutrition, hormonal balance (i.e., use of hormonal supplements, pregnancy and other life stages) and environmental exposure can all affect the strength and resilience of head hair.
Before pinpointing the causes of hair breakage, we must first explore the factors affecting hair density. The size and quantity of the hair follicles on each head determines overall hair thickness. Heads with more follicles have more hairs, and therefore more dense heads of hair. Larger follicles also produce thicker hairs. Color also complicates the equation. For instance, blonde hair has less pigmentation; the hair shafts are less dense; and so more hairs are needed to cover the scalp. So (natural-born) blondes tend to have more hair than individuals with other hair colors. Yet humans vary widely; when comparing notes between a group of blonde-haired people, the actual number and thickness of hairs could be completely different. That said, blondes tend to have the most hair strands, then brunettes, then redheads.
Hair strands exhibit a range of tactile qualities: straight, curly, wavy and so on. These characteristics can be traced to the shape of the hair follicle. However, hair-care products and procedures (perms, coloring, relaxing etc.) primarily affect the hair shaft, and therefore have a limited lifespan. However, changes in nutrition or lifestyle (or trauma, including chemotherapy) can affect the condition of the follicle. This helps to explain why post-chemotherapy, a patient's new hair may have a completely different color, thickness or texture.
The sebaceous glands on the scalp produce oi,l which helps protect and strengthen the hair. While excess sebum can lead to oily hair, over-washing can also deprive hair of this necessary moisture. However, there are also some ethnic considerations for hair elasticity and moisture. While African hair contains more sebum, the oil does not distribute evenly, due to the densely curled hair fibers. As a result, African hair may be more prone to hair breakage. In general, curly hair tends to be more coarse and less soft than straight hair. Yet lifestyle remains an important factor, in terms of hair health.
While everyone wants to look good, it is possible to be overzealous. Hair breakage can result from overexposure to intense heat or friction (combing) of wet hair, chemical treatments, tight hairstyles (such as ponytails or braids) and vigilant brushing. Any or all of these actions can damage the hair cuticle's outer layer. With less protective coating, the inner layer of hair is exposed. The hair appears more dull, dry and static-prone, which may wrongly inspire more products and handling. Similarly, emotional and psychological stress may trigger more fervent hair treatments with less clear perceptions of ramifications.
While frequently blamed for hair loss, stress can be healthy. Perceiving danger can infuse stress hormones into the body, shutting down your digestive and immune systems while elevating your heart rate and blood pressure. You are abruptly prepared to expound heroic amounts of energy, but unfortunately, it is not always warranted. Moreover, the recovery from this "flight or fight" state requires still more energy, diverting additional resources from your equally crucial "rest and digest" stage. Repeated (perceived) red-alerts lead the body into a state of jet lag, where it is unable to process events and situations clearly and respond appropriately. Nourishment, growth and regeneration may be shunted for seemingly larger crises. Overall health can decline, resulting in brittle hair, which breaks all too easily.
In some cases, hair breakage may be due to medications, hormonal changes (pregnancy or birth control medications) or it may indicate the onset of a medical illness (such as diabetes or thyroid complications). Prior to contacting a health-care provider, individuals should attempt to reconstruct their hair history. The onset, duration, location and quantity of hair breakage are distinct yet related facts that can help diagnose and treat internal health -are conditions that may be manifesting in the hair (among other places). While consumer products abound, one should consider one's hair carefully and respectfully as a marker and extension of internal health.

This week he [Pope Francis] had words on homosexuality, and they made big news. In part this was surprising and in part not. What the pope told reporters was nothing Catholics wouldnt say and havent said in common conversation. [Blogger: It's obviously different when the Pope says it, instead of just you or me.] Asked about his views on priests who are homosexual and celibate, Francis responded, If someone is gay and he searches for the Lord and has good will, who am I to judge?
He made it clear priests must do the true work of priestshelping people. But as to what is in a human heart, who is to judge? A modern pope hadnt said anything quite like that in public, which is why it was news. It has been called tolerant, but it wasnt tolerantit was loving, which is what a Christian should be. Church teaching is church teaching, doctrine is doctrine, theyre often complex and requiring of assertion and explanation. But when a pope speaks plainly the kind of actually humble thought Catholics actually hold in their hearts it can be powerful. And this was. Good.
The above is an obvious analysis. There was no need for anyone to huff and puff and man the barricades. Relax. Jesus always wins, whether we are ready or not. Our individual readiness or comfortable parameters don't matter.

Ancient civilizations cherished butterflies and assigned them with God-like supernatural powers. Raise your favorite butterfly by planting seeds of its host plant and bring the magic of the natural world to your front door.
Save the bees and help butterflies fly away happy by planting gift seeds. Four weeks before the last frost, cover seeds with a half inch of soil, keep moist and warm in a sunny window no chemical fertilizers or pesticides. Pesticides kill butterflies and a caterpillar will starve itself to death before it eats a man-made chemical. In Spring, or when seedlings several pairs of leaves, carefully separate and transplant them to individual containers or directly into the ground.
Butterfly Host Plants attract pregnant female butterflies to lay their eggs. Caterpillars hatch and eat the leaves they were laid on. After about two weeks of eating the caterpillar will crawl away and become a chrysalis. After about two weeks inside the chrysalis, they emerge as butterflies.
Organic seeds harvested from our gardens are sent with every order.
Sunflowers: International symbol of peace.

in the plane that it travels in (two dimensions, three orbital elements).
the orbit. This variable can be plotted versus time or position.

Roller coasters originated in Russia as ice slides. According to some experts, these appeared in St. Petersburg as early as the 1400s. By the 1700s, they were popular across the country as attractions at fairs. The ice slide was constructed entirely of ice, with a steep drop. Some, known as ice mountains, were as high as 70 feet with a 50 degree angle of descent! Riders sat on straw patches for the ride and were (hopefully) slowed to a stop by sand placed at the end of the hill. Creative owners added a series of bumps at the end to enhance the thrilland the danger. Others built cars of hollowed wood or ice with a short rope for the rider to hold onto. Enterprising riders who developed skill in steering such devices often made money teaching others. Eventually, waxed wooden slopes were built indoors to make the ride a year-round attraction.
French soldiers in Russia during the Napoleonic Wars loved the slides and brought the idea home. The first attempts failed, since the climate was warmer and the ice wouldnt stay frozen. Businessmen then adapted the indoor version of the slide to the outdoors, creating dry slides with waxed wooden slopes and hills and wheeled boards. Accidents were common but only seemed to attract more people to the rides. In 1817, two such rides were opened: the Les Montagnes Russes at Belleville and the Promanades Aeriennes in Bouujon Gardens in Paris. Riders would start their descent from one of two towers, curving down and back up, reaching speeds of 40 miles per hour. Grooves were cut into the walls of the slide and an extended axle fit into the groove, thus keeping the cars on track. Workers would push the cars back to the top of the tower. In 1926, a cable system was invented to more efficiently move slide cars to the top of the towers.
French innovators continued to experiment and some experts claim France as the true birthplace of the roller coaster. The double towers proved very popular, simulating racing. Frenchmen also made the first attempt with a loop-the-loop in the 1850s. This ride was called the Centrifuge Railway. Cars (basically seats attached to a chassis) would descend and loop with nothing but centrifugal force anchoring the car and rider to the track. Government officials put an end to the ride after accidents resulted.
American roller coaster history began with the Mauch Chunk Railway. This early coast was actually a coal mine transportation system. It was designed to take coal from the top of a 1260 foot high mountain to the port town, some 18 miles distant. Since 17 of those miles were downhill, the railway used simple gravity with mules pulling the empty cars back up. To solve the problem of too many mules ending up at the top, a car was designed to accommodate the animals so they could ride back down with the coal. Someone decided the workers should ride down each evening! Eventually, the mules were replaced by a steam engine that pulled the cars up a more gradual incline. It didnt take long for the entire system to become the Mauch Chunk Scenic Railway with passengers paying $1 to ride to the top and back down. In 1870, the coal mine began using shorter route and the Mauch Chunk was devoted entirely to pleasure rides with a hotel and restaurant springing up at the top. The railway remained open until 1930. Today, the site is a historic landmark.
Haverhill Downs was an American adaptation of the French indoor slides. It consisted of a multi-passenger toboggan sled which was hoisted to the top of the slide via an elevator. Passengers pushed the sled onto the slidea series of rollers that followed a figure 8 path. The cost was five cents per ride or six rides for a quarter. The first true roller coaster was the switchback railway, designed by La Marcus Thompson in 1890. Riders climbed stairs to board a car that was pushed from a station atop a wooden structure. The route went down a hill and over bumps until it ran out of momentum. The car was then hoisted back up to a second station while riders climbed a second set of stairs and followed a mirrored, opposite route down. These early switchback railways focused more on sight-seeing than thrills and traveled at six miles per hour. Adaptations were soon made to incorporate different routes and higher speeds as well as man-made dioramas to represent foreign lands.
Figure 8 roller coasters also developed in the late nineteenth century. This design allowed more turns. Early coasters at Coney Island were based on this design, as was the first roller coaster at Elitch Gardens in Denver. Track mounted brakes were developed so that brakes could be controlled from the station rather than by an attendant in the car. In 1898, the loop-the-loop was tried again. The Flip-Flap Railway used a true circle loop and the forces snapped riders necks! Modifying the loop to an oval made it safer but the low capacity (only four could ride) and fear from the public kept it from catching on at that time.
Next week, well continue to explore roller coasters, looking into their Golden Age. Each Friday, I will blog about some aspect of Elitch Gardens, early Denver, or other topics related to my next novel, Escaping Yesterday. In between, I will post small factoids on my Facebook page. You can join me there and I love new friends (https://www.facebook.com/pamela.nowak.142).
Due for release in September 2015, Escaping Yesterday is set in Elitchs Gardens, in 1905, and follows the story of Lottie Chase. Lottie is willing to take any risk to save her daughter from their abusive uncle. Stranded in Denver, Lottie meets Caleb Hudson, manager at Elitchs Gardens amusement park, who sees her as a manipulative huckster. Caleb, a veteran suffering from PTSD, craves the tranquility of the parks gardens. Lottie brings anything but peace as she seeks to convince the owners to add thrill rides so she can collect the sales commission and support her daughter. Neither anticipates their growing passion, common demons, or the dangers they will face as they confront their pasts and free their love.

The world is changing, and intelligent systems and automated manufacturing are drawing closer and closer to reality. To an extent, machines have been used in manufacturing for many years, but their spread and scope are rapidly increasing with advances in technology, particularly artificial intelligence. Nowhere is this more evident than in China, where officials are set to plunge huge amounts of investment into automated manufacturing systems, with the goal of making China a world leader in manufacturing by 2025. The looming changes in the way we live and work have even been given a name the fourth industrial revolution.
So what makes the fourth industrial revolution different from the other three? The original industrial revolution the period in history when humans changed from an agricultural to an industrial society is the one that the phrase usually refers to, and began in the late 18th century with the age of steam and mechanical production equipment. Then, in the mid-19th century, with the wide deployment of electricity coupled with the advent of mass production, the second industrial revolution was born. This was followed by the third revolution: the invention of electronics and the rise of information technology and computers, again changing the way that we live and work.
Building on the third revolution, the fourth industrial revolution ties together the virtual world of computing and physical objects, also known as the Internet of Things (IoT), with advances in automation and artificial intelligence. This may once again completely change the way that we live and work, with disruptive technologies such as self-driving cars just the tip of the iceberg. It can be seen as either a growing threat, or a huge opportunity but China, at least, is running headlong toward Industry 4.0, as the phenomenon is also known, at full speed.
China has had a plan for some time now: to transform from a manufacturing giant into a world high-tech manufacturing power. The 10-year plan is called the Made in China 2025 initiative and has ten key fields: high-end automated machine tools, rail equipment, agricultural equipment, energy-saving vehicles, information technology, biomedicine and high-end medical apparatus, aerospace and aviation equipment, electrical equipment, new materials, and maritime engineering equipment. Chinas Ministry of Industry and Information Technology intends to extend the scope of the pilot cities that have been carrying out the initiative, promoting 133 key projects in 25 provinces.
The central government plans to invest 5.2 billion yuan ($780 million), almost 1.5 times the money invested last year, to help upgrade the nation's systems, boost its intelligent manufacturing, and cut down on its excessive capacity. The government is at pains to change Chinas manufacturing to focus on quality more than quantity, which will help it to maintain economic growth at a medium to high level and gain more value globally. Siasun, the countrys largest robotics and automation company, has welcomed the policies and will make more effort to train talent to manufacture and operate automated systems as the initiative gains momentum.
The kinds of talent that companies like Siasun will need are going to be quite different from the kinds of work that people are doing today. As automation takes over more and more of our lives, it has the potential to cause disruptive social change, with wide political ramifications that have recently started to make themselves known. With this in mind, its worth considering how workers will need to adapt to this new normal. Online education courses in the topics that these new jobs will require are likely to become hugely important for many adults who do not have sufficient education and training to succeed in the new economy.
And its likely that, as goes China, so goes the West... so adults in Canada may soon have to face the possibility that their skills are out of date too. George Brown College provides courses that will aid people during this transition, from PLC programming to electromechanical and electronics technician. The college, which offers a certificate of completion, aims to equip its adult students with the skills to survive and thrive in the newly automated world skills that will be incredibly important for the economy going forward.

Painting Light and the Impressionist Method describes both the techniques associated with Impressionist painting as well as the events and artists that lead to its development. In doing so both traditional as well as current trends in Impressionist painting are described, as well as fundamental oil paintings techniques that will help all art students become better painters. The methods and techniques of studio and plein-air painting are explored in detail. This book is designed and written for beginning as well as advanced artists.
Timothy H. Widener has been a working artist and teacher for over twenty five years, exhibiting his work throughout the United States, several times touring internationally including Japan and China. This book, the first of a series devoted to both traditional methods, techniques and the history of art, focuses on Impressionist as well as Tonal fundamentals and how each sensibility can be used to create light with color.

SPARTAN is not about aerosol nucleation theory, which is of course an active field of research but too far off topic from our direct interests: below a few hundred nanometers particles cease to scatter much light or have much mass, hence do not change nephelometer light scattering readouts. Actually I should qualify that: there is one pesky light-scattering gas: NO2. Nitrogen dioxide is the reason polluted cities look polluted. That brownish colour in the sky is NO2. At more than a few parts per billion, visible wavelengths get noticeably scattered.
Diffusion of particles down the length of a tube is a convenient way to size-sort parties. But only particles below 100 nm can be practically size-sorted by diffusion. Particles are sorted into histogram-like bins from 10-100 nm. Since differences in diffusion are proportional to the square root of the mass then larger particles do not separate well. Sorting heavier aerosols is akin to the problem of sorting 235UF6 and 238UF6, i.e. requiring many times more path length. For heavier particles, i.e. 0.1-2.5 um, one would use a multi-stage impactor.
Interesting thing about impactors is that wet particles 'bounce' less than dry ones, so that >75% RH is a good way to capture these particles. Downside is that means we'll need to be extra careful about size correcting these hydroscopic particles.
Evaporative losses of particulate nitrates have been investigated in laboratory and field experiments with filters and impactors. The laboratory studies involved parallel sampling of ammonium nitrate particles with a Berner impactor and a Teflon filter. Both samplers were followed by nylon filters to collect evaporated nitric acid. Losses from the impactor were 3-7% at 35C and 18% relative humidity, and losses from the filter were 81-95% under the same conditions. This result (that evaporative losses from the filter exceeded those from the impactor) is consistent with theoretical predictionsIn other words Teflon is not very good for capturing nitrates. Huge losses, which means total aerosol mass is under predicted, chemical speciation is mis represented and so on.
Here is another great review, but slightly older.
I want to play with one of these H-DTMA instruments (H-DTMA stands for hygroscopic tandem differential mobility analyzer).

The ultraviolet (UV) solar radiation in the Earth's lower atmosphere and at the surface has been widely studied in the last decades due to its involvement in chemical and biological processes. Wavelengths in the range 100400 nm constitute the UV spectral region that is attenuated by scattering and absorption processes occurring in the atmosphere. UV radiation (200400 nm) at the top of the atmosphere represents less than 8% of the total irradiance.
The shortest wavelengths (UV-C, 100280 nm) are absorbed by stratospheric ozone; wavelengths in the UV-B range (280315 nm) are absorbed only weakly by ozone and therefore, a small part of UV-B and most of the UV-A (315400 nm) radiation reach the Earth's surface.
Solar UV reaching the ground is governed by astronomical and geographical parameters such as sun height and station altitude that change the path length of sunlight through the atmosphere; the atmospheric constituents such as ozone, clouds and aerosols can lead to UV variations at the Earth's surface; as a consequence, at ground level 94% of the UV energy corresponds to UV-A and 6% to UV-B.
In relation to the effect of UV, it is known that a marked increase in the incidence of diseases is associated with the exposure to UV-B solar radiation (WMO, 2002); it can produce sunburn, ocular damage and allergies, skin cancer and other effects on living beings. Many biological responses to the exposure to the UV range turn to be greater at the shortest wavelengths; thus even small increments of UV-B radiation can lead to substantial biological effects.
Therefore the UV effects on skin can be quantified by some different indices; the erythemal UV-Index, simply called the UV-Index (UVI), is an estimation of the effectiveness of solar radiation to produce harmful effects on human skin, where one unit is equal to 25 mWm2. The UVI is usually given at local solar noon, when the Sun is high in the sky (Marin et al., 2005).
Nevertheless, the erythemal UVI is an artificial quantity derived from the erythemal irradiance, which can be obtained as an integration of the UV irradiance at ground level, weighted by the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) action spectrum. This spectrum is a model for the susceptibility of the Caucasian skin to sunburn (erythemal). It was proposed by McKinlay and Diffey (1987) and adopted as a standard by the Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage (International Commission on Illumination). The CIE spectrum of human erythemal describes the energy efficiency at different wavelengths to produce the particular biological effect and shows an absolute maximum at 297 nm; the erytemal UV irradiance consists of 17% UV-A and 83% UV-B, at the Earth's surface. Therefore, small changes in UV-B may produce strong biological effects.
UVER can be modelled by radiative transfer models and validated against UVER measurements. Experimental UVER data are also useful for developing UV radiation climatology and establishing geographical and seasonal distribution of UVER exposure that, as it has been explained, are essential in many fields including human health.
In the last years, therefore, the interest of the scientific community has been focussed on the study of UVER radiation, principally due to its harmful effects, on biological systems; in the same way (Diffey, 1991) studied the biological effect of solar UV on humans. Fioletov et al. (2009) studied the relationship of UVER and vitamin-D. The following authors compared the biological active UV radiation in two different high altitude stations: Ambach et al. (1991) and Blumthaler et al. (1997). Di Sarra et al. (2002) recorded data in the Mediterranean area to study the effects of different factors. Several authors in Spain analysed the UVER in different regions of the country: Foyo-Moreno et al. (1998), Serrano et al. (2006), Canada et al. (2008), among others. In Slovakia, Pribullova and Chmelik (2008) proposed the isoline-maps (curves where the function has the same particular value) for solar erythemal studies. Badarinath et al. (2008) examined the influence of natural and anthropogenic activities on UV over a tropical region in India.
National and international organisations recommend the set-up of UV-B networks and regular measurements are also advised by the World Meteorological Organisation (WMO, 2007) but few radiometric stations measure systematically and, as a consequence, continuous data series are not numerous enough to provide a global climatology of UV-B solar radiation. In relation with measurements, specifically, their quality and sensors uncertainties, Hulsen and Grobner (2007) suggested the characterisation and calibration of UV sensor procedures for a required quality of measurements; Webb et al. (2007) devised a practical guide to derive erythemal weighted solar UV irradiance from measurements with broadband sensors.
In spite of the important role of UVER, few radiometric stations are installed in our Autonomous Community (Castilla and Leon) and continuous measurements are not numerous to provide a global climatology of UV-B and erythemal UV irradiance.
The aim of this paper is to analyse erythemal UV solar irradiance measured in the wavelength interval 280400 nm, in order to know its characteristics. The paper also examines the magnitude and nature of the annual variability using the isoline maps, which are related to the optical properties of the atmosphere. Erythemal UV may be absorbed and scattered in its passage through the atmosphere. The attenuation experienced by UVER, including hydrometeors and impurities is investigated under cloud-free conditions. The final objective is to understand the role of the atmospheric constituents in modulating the annual cycle of UVER irradiance at ground level.
The interest of this paper is that similar data series have not been recorded before and no similar work has previously been done in Central Spain. Furthermore, previous studies have observed a decrease in stratospheric ozone levels in the region Bilbao et al. (2008), and as a consequence, higher levels of UVER radiation could reach the troposphere and the surface.
This work constitutes the first erythemal UV analysis in the region, which is essential due to the fact that the atmospheric conditions in the area (dry summers and cold winters, high air temperatures and low-vapour pressure values at midday from June to August) lead us to think that the solar radiation received is higher than in other regions in the country (Bilbao and Miguel, 2010). The study is recommended from the point of health protection as the region is an area with a number of natural parks and courses of recreational activities.
In the following sections a description of the place, data base and the methodology is given; the statistical analysis of hourly, daily and monthly UVER values is described and, in the same way, the interannual variability and the solar UV-B attenuation in the atmosphere are explained.
The measurements used in this study have been taken in a rural area near Valladolid, Spain, 38 km NW of the city (4140N; 450W and 849 m above sea level). The climate in the area is usually warm with maximum and minimum temperatures of 38 C and 10 C in summer, respectively; whereas in winter months, the weather is influenced by Atlantic frontal systems.
The UV-B irradiance was recorded by a pyranometer YES UVB-1 (Yankee Environmental Systems, Inc.) and the global solar irradiance (G) was measured by a pyranometer CM-6B (Kipp & Zonen), both on horizontal surface (Bilbao and Miguel, 2010).
According to the manufacturer, the UVB-1 radiometer has a spectral response between 280 and 320 nm, which is very similar to the erythemal (sunburn) and DNA damage action spectra; its cosine response is better than 5% for 060 of solar zenith angle (SZA) and its sensitivity is 2.04 Wm2V1. The instrument was calibrated every two years, and the sensitivity variation between 2002 and 2008 was around 0.5%. The last sensor calibration was developed at the National Institute for Aerospace Technology (INTA) in Spain. This calibration consisted of the measurement of the spectral response of the sensor indoors and a comparison with a Brewer MKIII spectroradiometer outdoors. After this process, a double input matrix with the calibration factors depending on the SZA and the total ozone column (TOC) was obtained using a radiative transfer model.
In order to convert the output-voltage signal of the sensor into units of erythemal irradiance (Wm2), the signal voltage was multiplied by the calibration factor which is obtained from the matrix taking into account the average SZA during the 10-min measure and the daily TOC. The experimental uncertainty of the sensor according to the results of Hulsen and Grobner (2007) is in the range 4.67%.
Global solar data were recorded by a CM-6B (Kipp & Zonen) pyranometer that provides measurements in a spectral range 3052800 nm. Another CM-6B sensor was calibrated at the Institute of Renewable Energy (CIEMAT) in Madrid, Spain, by an outdoor inter-comparison with the reference sensor CM22 Kipp & Zonen calibration traceable by the World Radiometric Reference through the World Radiometric Centre in Davos, Switzerland. The calibration constant has uncertainties lower than 2%. The last CM-6B instrument is only used to calibrate every year the CM-6B instrument that takes ground measurements. The variation in the calibration factor along the analysed period was around 3%.
Daily TOC values were remote sensing recorded by Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) and Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) sensors. They were provided by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) through the web (http://macuv.gsfc.nasa.gov/). Daily TOC data from June 2002 to December 2008 have been used in this study. The used data version from TOMS (before 2005) has been the TOMS-V8-corrected. This version shows a deviation lower than 1% for the latitudes similar to Valladolid when it was compared with ground measurements (Anton et al., 2010).
Solar sensors were connected to a Campbell CR10X Data Logger, which was programmed to take measurements every 10 s and computed the average values every 10 min; then, hourly and daily irradiances were evaluated from the 10-min average values, with respect to the daily values, the sunshine and sunset (hours with no 6 measures) were taken into account to better consider the length of the day. The measures are collected in Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
UVER irradiance data series was composed of 88 278 10-min diurnal data which are used to evaluate 13 490 and 1488 UVER hourly and daily values, respectively.
The global solar irradiance set consisted of 167 378 values as 10-min average diurnal data. Global irradiance was checked taking into account the detection limits of the sensor and the following quality control tests: G1.2 G0, where G is the horizontal global solar irradiance and G0 is the horizontal extraterrestrial solar irradiance. This criterion was used to guaranty real G values because, in principle, G values higher than 1.2 G0 cannot be possible. For further details about the followed quality control see Mateos et al. (2010). After this process, from 164 813 10-min global solar data, a total of 29 464 hourly and 2732 daily values were obtained. Some month by data were missing in 2006, 2007 and 2008, due to calibration activities and technical problems.
Few studies about the performance of solar erythemal radiation have been carried out in Spain and even fewer in Castile and Leon region, Spain, although the territory is one of the country that receives really high levels of solar radiation (Miguel et al., 2001).
where is the sun declination; is the site latitude; i is the sun hourly angle; s is the sunset hourly angle; Isc is the solar constant (1367 Wm2); E0 is the eccentricity of the Earth's orbit around the Sun (Iqbal, 1983).
Table I shows the criteria set that was established by the authors for the classification of different sky conditions according to the clearness index intervals. The sky condition intervals have been selected according to Mateos et al. (2010), considering that the limit value for clear conditions is lower in the daily values than in the hourly ones because the hourly values are calculated with 6 data, and it is easier to find a clearness index higher than 0.75; however the daily values are the average of much more data and find values higher than 0.75 is more difficult.
With the aim of investigating the characteristics of the UVER dataset, a statistical analysis was carried out. The hourly irradiance data for each month of the measurement period were arranged in ascending order and the following statistical parameters were evaluated: arithmetic mean (M), median (Md) maximum (Mx), standard deviation (SD), the first and third quartiles, Q1 and Q3, coefficient of quartile variation V(%) = 100(Q3 Q1)/(Q3 + Q1), kurtosis (Ku), skewness (Sk) and percentiles: P0, P5, P25, P50, P75 and P95. A similar calculation has been made with the daily data. The statistical parameters of M, SD, Sk and Ku give information about the data distribution characteristics, such that M is the central tendency; SD shows the dispersion; Sk represents the degree of asymmetry with relation to the central value and Ku is the degree of the inclination of the peak of the distribution in relation to its centre. These parameters are necessary for characterising the location and variability of the data set and evaluating a suitable probability distribution that could be used to generate synthetic data or for assessing model results.
Contour lines, also called isoline-maps, have been used to plot the percentile, mean, skewness and kurtosis variables. The isoline is a function of the time (hourly) and the month that connects points of same value. The gradient of a variable is always perpendicular to the isolines. These configurations allow inferring relative gradients of the variable and estimating that variable value at specific atmospheric conditions.
The UVER and global solar irradiation data series are studied in this work. Figure 1 shows the variation of the measured UVER values during the measurement campaign. Data reveal a common evolution shape with maxima in summer and minima in winter, mainly due to the daily minimum SZA and day-length (astronomical factors) variation during the year. Large fluctuations in the months of March and November are mainly due to unstable meteorological conditions during the transition from cold to warm weather and vice versa; the TOC, cloud and aerosol changes along the year can also explain the UVER variations (Miguel et al., 2010).
The absolute daily maximum UVER irradiation was 6307 Jm2 (25th June 2008) and the minimum 164 Jm2 (1st November 2008). The maximum daily UVER values were the following for the other years: 5706 Jm2 (11th July 2002), 5936 Jm2 (19th June 2003), 5810 Jm2 (14th July 2004) and 5699 Jm2 (4th June 2005).
The fluctuations may be due to clouds, aerosols and TOC; however, the annual variation is also influenced by astronomic factors, such as the SZA, which modifies the optical path through the atmosphere. It can be seen that the annual maximum is higher when it occurs near the summer solstice date, because in this period, the extraterrestrial solar radiation and the day length reach their upper values.
The cloud effects are significantly appreciated in Figure 1 when high differences occur between two consecutive days. Days of the measurement campaign have been classified according to the clearness index values; July is the month with more clear days and winter and autumn are, principally, partly cloudy seasons. The cloudiest months are January, December and November. January has approximately as many cloudy days as partly cloudy.
A statistical study of the most representative erythemal indices for each month of the year has been carried out and the UVER accumulated values have been evaluated because they are very useful in the studies of effects on human beings.
The statistical parameters of the hourly average irradiance values for each month (all the years together) of the experimental period were assessed. Table II shows the hourly statistical estimators for June. It can be observed that the median values are higher than the average ones, which suggests that the UVER distribution is not normal.
The differences between the superior quartiles and the maximum values are low, with the highest ones not exceeding 33 mWm2. This result means that the maximum values are representative of the UVER irradiance at midday. The SD shows low values that confirm high stability in the same period.
The UVER variability has been studied by means of the index V. From this, it can be seen that June represents high stability with low values of V that fluctuate between 13% at midday and 15% in the afternoon. The coefficient of quartile variation V reaches its lowest value before solar noon in summer time; this indicates a high stability along these hours in summer months. It can be appreciated that the inferior quartile is close to the mean value and the SD is higher along midday hours, and symmetrically distributed around solar noon during the summer months. This could be explained by a minor presence of clouds in summer that leads to a high stability.
There is a great difference between the minimum values and the percentile P5, more remarkable in summer time around solar noon. It can be concluded that the absolute minimum values cannot be considered as representative of UVER at the measurement station and correspond to atypical values, particularly in summer. Similar results have been obtained by Martinez-Lozano et al. (1996), Foyo-Moreno et al. (1998) and Bilbao et al. (2008).
The differences between Mx values and P95 are quite small; for instance in June they are smaller than 7%. So, the maximum values may be considered as representative of UVER irradiation characteristics in Valladolid along the year.
The monthly average hourly UVER values have been calculated. The results show that they fluctuate between 29.33 mWm2 in December and 208.41 mWm2 in July at solar noon. Figure 2 shows the mean monthly hourly annual evolution and a high symmetry can be observed around the month of June when the irradiance reaches its maximum, while it decreases in spring and autumn and reaches its minimum in winter months. The results can be explained taking into account the relation between the summer and winter solstices. In Figure 2 the TOC effects can be deduced because the UVER values are lower in spring than in the autumn months, (April and September).
Isoline configurations have been used in order to show a more detailed evolution of UVER (Miguel et al., 1994). Two symmetries are observed with respect to the solar noon and the solstices. Maximum values at solar noon depend on the SZA that modifies the optical path of the radiation through the atmosphere and on the day length. The plots show a similar pattern for all atmospheric conditions except for cloudy skies. Similar results were obtained by other authors in Spain: Foyo-Moreno et al. (1998) in Granada, Martinez-Lozano et al. (1996) in Valencia, and Serrano et al. (2006) in Badajoz.
Figure 3 presents the isoline diagram of the hourly erythemal irradiance percentiles in Wm2 for four different types of sky: clear, partly cloudy, overcast and all conditions. Lines of equal intervals of 0.02 Wm2 have been drawn (Bilbao et al., 2003). The diagram provides information about solar UVER percentile during each hour of the day and for each month. The diurnal variation of the percentile for a month can be obtained from the figure by drawing a vertical line for that particular month. A horizontal line drawn for a specific hour can give the annual variation of the percentile.
For all situations, the mean radiation flux at midday is the greatest in the summer months when it exceeds 0.24 Wm2 for clear skies, while the lowest midday flux occurs in the month of January about 0.02 Wm2. The irradiance tends to be less in the afternoon than in the morning for the autumn months of September and October, probably due to the cloud development after midday.
It can be seen in Figure 3 that the slope of the isolines along months for fixed hour is smaller for low percentiles than for the highest ones; this result can be explained by the prevailing atmospheric conditions in the region with air masses that lead to cloudy sky in winter, spring and autumn, and clear days in summer with cloud diurnal evolution and persistent high pressures; for clear-sky conditions, the slope in the summer months shows a different pattern due to lack of clouds.
For all-sky conditions and low percentile values (P0 and P25), a big gradient can be observed for fixed hour; this pattern is not relevant under clear-sky conditions, which could confirm a relation with cloud cover. With respect to cloudy partial hours, the effect of the SZA is the most significant one.
The average hourly UVER irradiances for all, clear, partial cloudy and overcast conditions are shown in Figure 4. It can be observed that the average values are highly statistically significant; maximum values appear in spring and autumn when ozone column is maximum or minimum, respectively. It is also appreciated the gradient increases in summer months and that the average erythemal values are influenced by the optical path through the atmosphere and by the clouds attenuation.
Figure 5 shows the SD isolines for the monthly average hourly UVER values. For all-sky conditions, the gradient increases in summer and spring months in the central hours of the day. The distribution is near bimodal with two maxima (one of them is a relative maximum) under all sky conditions. The maximum SD for clear sky is obtained in May; this trend can be caused by several attenuation sources. In fact, they can be influenced by cloudiness evolution and by the atmospheric turbidity-aerosol loadings that can produce scattering process in the lower atmosphere, Jacovides et al. (2009).
The isolines of the monthly average hourly erythemal solar UV skewness and kurtosis explain the asymmetry of the distribution and are shown in Figure 5. It can be observed that the skewness for all-sky conditions are negative for summertime and positive in winter, which is associated with highly asymmetrical distribution with a left tail during summer; the tail could be due to the low values attenuated by clouds and by the TOC, in spring and summer months.
Kurtosis isolines of the monthly average hourly erythemal solar UV are also shown in Figure 5; it is the fourth moment of the distribution and it is a sign of whether the data are peaking or are flat related to a normal distribution. Datasets with positive kurtosis tend to have a distinct peak near the mean that declines rather quickly. It can be seen in Figure 5, for all sky conditions, that the data have positive kurtosis in May, June and July; these values correspond with a leptokurtic distribution, left tail. This fact is due to the clear conditions which are responsible for the narrow peak distribution and owing to some cloudy days which are responsible for the left tail. For the rest of the months the kurtosis values are near zero or negative (October, November and December) and, therefore, the distributions are mesokurtics. Similar results were obtained in Southwester Spain by Serrano et al. (2006).
In the study of the biologically active erythemal solar UV radiation, it is very interesting to know the necessary time to have a fixed amount of irradiation, this magnitude is the accumulated erythemal solar irradiation through a period of time (kJm2); this information is relevant in studies on the biological effects of UV radiation and vitamin-D synthesis production.
From the monthly mean hourly erythemal irradiance along the period 20022008 the accumulated hourly UVER has been evaluated. Figure 6 shows the evolution of accumulated hourly UV values for each month. Adding up these for all the days and months, the accumulated UVER along a year presents a value of 29 kJm2.
Daily and monthly average erythemal UV irradiation values have been calculated. Figure 7 shows the results with the greatest fluctuations in spring season. It can be seen that the variation of the monthly values (continuous smooth curve) is quite regular, with the maximum taking place in July and the minimum in December. Daily UVER increases in spring to summer being its slope smaller than the decrease in autumn. The different slops can be explained by the total ozone effects. During the summer months, when SZA leads to high UVER irradiance, the TOC is declining; this effect drives the maximum levels from June to July. Similar results were obtained by Frederick et al. (2000) at different stations in the United States of America.
Table III shows the statistical characteristics of daily UVER dataset for all-sky conditions. The median values are higher than the average ones and the SD increases in May and in summer months; the coefficient of variation shows the lowest values in July and August, which means that the highest stability is observed in the summer months and the attenuation by aerosols could be compensated by the diminution of TOC.
The differences between the minimum and the percentile P5 are quite high, exceeding 40% of the absolute minimum values in September; this result means that minimum values cannot be considered as representative of the erythemal radiation characteristics received in Valladolid, (Spain), and correspond to atypical values.
In order to know the attenuation that UVER experiences in its passage through the atmosphere, the irradiation corresponding to clear days has been evaluated. For this reason, first the number of clear days for each month in the experimental period was calculated using the clearness index criteria, and then, the number of measured UVER data under clear conditions are shown in Table IV, being a total of 377 clear days with UVER measurements along the period.
From the UVER daily data, the decadal (average of 10-day consecutive values) clear-sky UVER, called UVERclear, were evaluated. Figure 8 shows the evolution of erythemal extraterrestrial, called UVER0, UVERclear and measured UVER monthly average decadal values of erythemal radiation, respectively. UVER0 was calculated using the erythemal solar constant of 10.1 Wm2 obtained using the erythemal action spectrum (McKinlay and Diffey, 1987) and the solar spectrum proposed by Gueymard (2004). The variation of UVER in Figure 8 shows slight relative minimum, the first occurred in the last ten days of February; the second one took place in the third decade of March and the third one in the second decade of April. This evolution is according to the TOC influence (McKenzie et al., 1991).
The maximum corresponded to the third decade of June with a value of 5 kJ m2. The difference between the UVERclear and UVER measured values is greater in the spring and summer time than in autumn and winter.
Comparing the variation of UVER extraterrestrial and UVERclear, it can be seen in Figure 8 that both curves are symmetrical, although with different values. At the end of spring the difference diminishes because of UVERclear values are not affected by cloudiness but the influence of TOC which reaches its maximum in spring can be observed.
The ratio UVER measured to UVER extraterrestrial, UVER/UVER0, has been evaluated from the decadal values shown before. This ratio represents the percentage of energy which, on the average, is transmitted by the atmosphere and may be considered as the atmospheric transparency under average conditions (Bilbao et al., 2008).
The ratio of UVERclear to UVER extraterrestrial, UVERclear/UVER0, gives information about the atmospheric transparency without clouds but with aerosols, although in low proportion. The ratio of UVER measured to UVERclear (UVER/UVERclear) is also interesting and represents the observed UVER irradiation fraction, which corresponds to a cloud-free sky and mean normal transmission; due to the fact that UVER is smaller than UVERclear, this attenuation is attributed to cloudiness and aerosols in quantity superior to the value used in the definition of UVERclear.
The mean decadal values of the UVER irradiation attenuation at the measurement station site for each month of the year are shown in Figure 9. It can be seen that fluctuations of the greatest amplitude are shown in the UVER/UVERclear decadal values; it is normal as UVERclear is smaller than UVER0 and the quotient is more sensitive to UVER variations. In addition, UVER/UVER0 is in phase with UVER/UVERclear although the latter shows higher values.
Figure 9 also shows that both UVER/UVER0 and UVERclear/UVER0 follow the same pattern. As a result of the higher values of UVERclear (mentioned above), the values of the cloud-free atmospheric transparency are higher. The transparency UVER/UVER0 increases from spring to summer and decreases from summer to winter showing relative maxima in spring and September.
With regard to the curve UVERclear/UVER0, the mean decadal values show slight fluctuations in summer with a maximum of 2%; it diminishes in winter and shows a remarkable maximum in March. This study could be concluded saying that the atmosphere, considering all days or only days with clear solar UVER radiation, would have similar transparency, 2%, and it could absorb at least 98% of it. It can be said that the total attenuation would be 98%, due to all atmospheric constituents.
The UVER/UVERclear ratio gives information about the contribution of cloudiness to UVER attenuation. The transparency in summer is about 90% (Figure 9), which means that clouds cause 10% of attenuation in this season. In spring, March and April, the transparency of the atmosphere due to clouds is 70% or the attenuation by clouds is 30%.
The biologically active UV solar radiation, UVER, has been analysed to characterise the statistical distribution parameters and the attenuation by atmospheric constituents.
The study has permitted to know that the measurement period (1488 days) has 25% clear, 57% partly cloudy and 18% overcast days, respectively, being the total of clear days in the same period 377.
With respect to the hourly average irradiance values, the analysis shows that the maxima may be considered as representative of the UVER characteristics in Valladolid, whereas the minima are quite atypical, mainly during the summertime.
The variability index, V, shows that the highest stability corresponds to the summer time at midday hours, mainly during June. The study shows that the optical properties of the atmosphere are more variable in spring than in summer with May the month with the largest variations.
The accumulated values of erythemal UV solar radiation show an annual irradiation of 29 kJm2. The percentile distributions were analysed by isoline plots for different sky conditions and we can conclude that cloudiness is an attenuation factor affecting the low percentiles on the symmetry and the gradient. Monthly hourly average erythemal isolines present a high symmetry for clear sky and a 95% confidence interval with high statistical significance.
Data series have positive kurtosis values in May, June, July and autumn months, that corresponds with a leptokurtic distribution left tail. This is because of clear conditions, responsible for narrow peak distribution and also owing to some cloudy days responsible for the left tail; for the rest of the months, kurtosis is near or just below zero (October, November and December) and, therefore, the distributions are mesokurtic.
In relation to the attenuation of erythemal solar radiation in its passage through the atmosphere, it has been found that UVER transparency along its path to the ground is about 90%. This means that clouds cause 10% of attenuation in summer; in March and April, the transparency of the atmosphere due to clouds effect is 70% and the attenuation is obviously 30%.
The results have been compared with the ones obtained by Serrano et al. (2006), in Badajoz, Spain, and they showed that the performance is similar though the UVER levels in Valladolid are a little higher than theirs. The dissimilarities could be attributed to the different altitude and atmospheric constituents in both places. On the other hand, solar station at Valladolid has fewer clear days than Badajoz. Therefore, this study can help understand the evolution and characteristics of UVER radiation in Spain.
The authors gratefully acknowledge the financial support extended by the Education and Research Spanish Ministry through the Project CGL2009-08097 (CLI) and the Autonomous Government through the project G220 (20082011). The anonymous reviewers for their useful comments and suggestions in improving the paper are highly acknowledged. The authors also thank OMI International Science Team for the remote sensing data used in this study.

In 1956, on a lark and with a lust for adventure, five UT students departed Knoxville for Alaska, where they spent the summer working in a gold mine.
The Territory of Alaska, still 3 years shy of statehood, was a sparsely populated frontier of less than 200,000 people. The heaviest traffic on the only highway between Fairbanks and Anchorage occurred in July, when an average of 42 vehicles a day traveled the road. Oil would not be discovered at Prudhoe Bay for a dozen years yet. Almost all roads were unpaved, and a guardrail was a novelty. Gas pumps were scarce. Despite carrying three jerrycans of gas in the trunk of the car, the men ran out of gas four times. After a summer of hard work and unending daylight, they returned to Tennessee with the tusk of a woolly mammoth atop their car. Today the 150-pound tusk is on display in UTs McClung Museum, where three of the adventurers recently regrouped and reminisced.
John dArmand, who now lives in Alaska, instigated the reunion and tusk-viewing when he returned to Knoxville for a visit last spring. With him at the museum, at the invitation of Dr. Thomas Broadhead of the Earth and Planetary Sciences Department, were Gene Fair and George Dominick of Knoxville. The other surviving member of the group, Knox Williams, lives in Wheaton, Illinois. The fifth traveler, Paul Dominick, Georges cousin, died 10 years ago. The five attended Knoxvilles Tyson Junior High School together and were graduated from West High School. They all pledged Phi Gamma Delta at UT, but dArmand dropped out of the fraternity and joined the Independent Students Association.
The Knoxville natives drove to Alaska in dArmands fathers 1949 Packard.
It was a beautiful car, dArmand remembers. But the Packard was poorly suited for the mud and gravel roadsthe Alcan Highway (now called the Alaska Highway) was still in its infancyand was so bunged up when the round trip was over that the elder dArmand sold it for just $35.
The five stuck together after arriving in Fairbanks. We were hired as point drivers by the Fairbanks Expedition of United States Smelting, Refining, and Mining Company to work in a dredge mine farther north, dArmand says. We worked nine hours a day, six days a week in ankle-deep water. The workers were called point drivers after the machines that they operated. Point drivers were small pile drivers, which drilled 40 feet into the permafrost to thaw it with water so the dredge could claw through the soil. The friends earned less than $100 a week for their labor. Their dwelling was a tent cabin heated by a woodstove, whose fire invariably burned out by two oclock or so every morning, dArmand says. Already suffering from bronchitis because of cold nights of sleeping on the ground en route to Alaska, dArmand left the mine after a short time and was hospitalized briefly. He spent the rest of the summer working in a salmon cannery on the Kenai River and as deckhand aboard various vessels in the Gulf of Alaska. The other friends continued working at the dredge mine, and it was there one day that they saw the mammoth tusk unearthed by the mining equipment.
A guy was walking away with it over his shoulder, and we offered him three dollars for it, Fair recalls. It wasnt long before the unwieldy souvenir was southbound to Tennessee atop dArmands car, driven by Fair and Williams. The Dominick cousins already had flown home.
At the end of the season, dArmand, having worked his way to Seattle aboard a salmon tender, hitchhiked 1,200 miles up the desolate Fraser River Canyon to Fort Nelson, British Columbia, watching for his friends, who were returning from Fairbanks. Since there was only one road in the area, they would be hard to miss. When I saw my car, it was carrying the mammoth tusk.
When the young men returned to Knoxville, Williams donated the $3 tuska bargain remnant of the Pleistocene Epochto the UT Geology Department. Today its part of a permanent archaeology exhibit at McClung Museum.
Now in their seventies, the men retain a spark of the youthful optimism that took them to Alaska. George Dominick, retired from the electrical supply business, is a lifelong amateur-radio operator. His late cousin, Paul, owned Dominicks Antiques in Knoxville. Fair is a dentist in Knoxville. Williams has a cabin near Townsend, Tennessee, where he spends a good deal of time. An accomplished singer, dArmand began his career by touring and recording with the Robert Shaw Chorale, winning a Grammy Award in the process. He now lives in Auke Bay, Alaska, and is a professor of music at the University of Alaska.
The men share grins and guffaws and long-ago memories. They not only had a youthful grand adventure; they treasure the friendship of a lifetime.

During the past decades, new nuclear systems have been designed with the goals of ensuring the sustainability of nuclear energy, minimizing long-lived radioactive waste and improving the safety of nuclear reactors. This has led to the request for new or more precise nuclear data, either because reactions on isotopes neglected before have become important, or because new types of reactions have to be described. Nuclear data are in fact all the quantities necessary to describe the nuclear reactions occurring in a system.
In Europe, an important effort has been devoted to the collection of high quality nuclear data, and partially supported by the EURATOM framework programs: in particular ANDES (Accurate Nuclear Data for nuclear Energy Sustainability) and CHANDA (solving CHAllenges in Nuclear Data) in FP7. This EPJ Plus Focus Point issue presents part of the work performed during these programs.
Future space exploration aims to fly further from Earth than ever before. Now, Italian Space Agency scientists have expressed an interest in contributing to the development of robotic technologies to bring an asteroid from beyond lunar orbit back into closer reach in order to better study it. In a paper published in EPJ Plus, Marco Tantardini and Enrico Flamini from the Italian Space Agency (ASI) make the case for taking part in the robotic phase of the Asteroid Redirect Mission (ARM). In addition to taking manned spaceflights deeper into space than ever before, the proposed mission would also bring some benefit for planetary science.
Since the 19th century, collectors have become increasingly interested in weapons from ancient Asia and the Middle East. In an attempt to fight forged copies, physicists are now adding their imaging power to better authenticate these weapons; the fakes can't resist the investigative power of X-rays combined with neutron imaging. In a study published in EPJ Plus, an Italian team, working in close collaboration with the Wallace Collection in London and the Neutron Imaging team at the Helmholtz Zentrum Berlin, has demonstrated the usefulness of such a combined imaging approach to help museum curators in their quest to ensure authenticity. Filament Salvemini, currently affiliated with the Australian Centre for Neutron Scattering ACNS at ANSTO in Lucas Heights near Sydney, and colleagues can now reliably tell first-class modern copies of early daggers and swords from authentic ones.
Initially motivated by the celebration of the international year of Crystallography in 2014, This EPJ Plus focus point issue presents a coherent collection of papers summarizing the status of third generation synchrotron beamlines devoted to crystallography in most European facilities and in an invited extraeuropean one: 9 papers for 9 facilities. Standard organization of information, emphasis on technical details and design choices, many pictures and schematics, are some of the attractive ingredients offered herein. The reader may find references to more than 50 beamlines available or planned in the close future for crystallography experiments, detailed technical descriptions of 17 beamlines, additional information about complementary aspects such as user access, laboratory support or computational tools and scientific highlights. Last but not least, looking through the papers one may get key hints on the future directions as planned by the different facilities. Altogether, a tool to have a global view of crystallography beamlines in a very significant subset of the worldwide synchrotron network.
Einsteins theory of gravity, also referred to as General Relativity, predicts that a rotating body such as the Earth partially drags inertial frames along with its rotation. In a study recently published in EPJ Plus, a group of scientists based in Italy suggests a novel approach to measuring what is referred to as frame dragging. Angela Di Virgilio of the National Institute of Nuclear Physics, INFN, in Pisa, Italy, and her colleagues propose using the most sensitive type of inertial sensors, which incorporate ring lasers as gyroscopes, to measure the absolute rotation rate of the Earth.
Physics is sometimes closer to philosophy when it comes to understanding the universe. Donald Chang from Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China, attempts to elucidate whether the universe has a resting frame. The results have recently been published in EPJ Plus.
After a very long hunting-gathering period, the first agricultural civilizations were born at the end of the last ice age. Agricultural practices generated a surplus of food, which was a prerequisite for the birth of modern societies. During the twentieth century, the modern agriculture was developed and now yields more food than ever before: less than 20% of our global population works to provide the whole mankind with food.
As environmental problems and resource constraints are arising, we now turn to agriculture in the hope for solutions regarding future sustainability. Could agriculture provide us with both food and fuel? Could we contribute to climate change mitigation by letting plants exploit the carbon dioxide that has been accumulated in the atmosphere? There are many promises, and we know that plants are our ultimate companions in life. However, more systemic methods are required to cope with multi-functionality and living systems so that we do not end up causing new problems as we try to cope with those already there.
This collection of articles contains the lectures given at the Summer School "Re-writing Nuclear Physics textbooks: 30 years of radioactive ion beam physics`` which was held at the INFN Sezione di Pisa and Department of Physics of the University of Pisa during the week 20-24 July 2015.
The school celebrated thirty years since the publication of the first papers (I. Tanihata et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 55, (1985) 2676 and P.G. Hansen, B. Jonson, Europhys. Lett. 4, (1987) 409) in which radioactive ion beams (RIBs) were used to study properties of atomic nuclei. The school consisted of twelve lectures published here and freely accessible until 24 April 2017. Each lecture covers a topic contained in a standard Nuclear Physics textbook extended to show how our understanding has deeply changed due to the experience accumulated with RIB physic. The collection is directed mainly to third and fourth year undergraduate students but it could be seen also as an update for teachers of basic Nuclear Physics courses.
For further information read the Editorial here.
The nanometric-size islands of magnetic metal sporadically spread between vacuum gaps display unique conductive properties under a magnetic field. In a recent study published in EPJ Plus, Anatoliy Chornous from Sumy State University in Ukraine and colleagues found that the vacuum gaps impede the direct magnetic alignment between the adjacent islands - which depends on the external magnetic field - while allowing electron tunneling between them. Such externally controlled conducting behaviour opens the door for applications in electronics with magnetic field sensors - which are used to read data on hard disk drives - biosensors and microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), as well as in spintronics with magnetic devices used to increase memory density.
Germany decided to go nuclear-free by 2022. A CO2-emission-free electricity supply system based on intermittent sources, such as wind and solar - or photovoltaic (PV) - power could replace nuclear power. However, these sources depend on the weather conditions. In a new study published in EPJ Plus, Fritz Wagner from the Max Planck Institute for Plasma Physics in Germany analysed weather conditions using 2010, 2012, 2013 and 2015 data derived from the electricity supply system itself, instead of relying on meteorological data. By scaling existing data up to a 100% supply from intermittent renewable energy sources, the author demonstrates that an average 325 GW wind and PV power are required to meet the 100% renewable energy target. This study shows the complexity of replacing the present primary energy supply with electricity from intermittent renewable sources, which would inevitably need to be supplemented by other forms of CO2-free energy production.

The world is currently experiencing one of the worst known El Nio events, the warming and cooling of waters off the west coast of South America that influences the development of extreme weather systems around the world. Worsened by climate change, already weve seen Indonesia go up in flames, hurricane Patricia given a boost, and corals in all oceans enter a global bleaching event, only the third time this has ever been declared.
Things, however, are set to get even rougher, as the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) expects that this years El Nio will get stronger still. This is because we still havent reached the peak of the eventwhich, based on past occurrences, reaches a maximum between October and January of the following year. Judging by how things have been playing out until now, the consequences of a strengthening El Nio could be dramatic, although an increase in awareness of the event has led to greater preparation.
Our scientific understanding of El Nio has increased greatly in recent years, says Michel Jarraud, the WMO secretary-general. However, this event is playing out in uncharted territory. Our planet has altered dramatically because of climate change, the general trend towards a warmer global ocean, the loss of Arctic sea ice and of over a million square kilometers of summer snow cover in the northern hemisphere. So this naturally occurring El Nio event and human-induced climate change may interact and modify each other in ways which we have never before experienced.
Normally, trade winds move from the west coast of South America towards Australia. This has the effect of pushing warm surface water away from the coast towards Asia and Australasia, allowing deeper, colder water to come to the surface in the eastern Pacific. During an El Nio event, however, these winds are weakened, or even reversed, which means that the warm surface water is no longer trapped in the western Pacific, and is instead pushed towards South America. It is this movement of warm water that alters the wind currents over the ocean which then has knock-on effects not just locally, but globally.
Meteorologists have been using previous events, which occur irregularly every 3 to7 years, to predict what might occur this year, but this doesnt taken into account current changes to the weather patterns thatare being driven by climate change. Even before the onset of El Nio, global average surface temperatures had reached new records. El Nio is turning up the heat even further, says Jarraud. Only time will tell how the current El Nio will playout, and what impact it might have globally.
The post This Years El Nio Predicted To Get Even Stronger Over The Coming Months appeared first on Pets Guide To Everything.

Edward Atkinson. Atkinson was a doctor in the Royal Navy and at this stage of the journey his horse, Jehu, has been shot and he is now manhauling with Evans and Lashley. During the second winter on the Antarctic it was Atkinson who took command, Scott was dead, Evans was recovering from scurvy and the only other leader, Victor Campbell, was trapped with his party some distance from Cape Evans. It was Atkinson who sent dogs to rescue Teddy Evans and also sent Cherry-Garrard to assist the returning pole party. After the Terra Nova expedition Atkinson saw action in World War 1 and fought at The Somme and at Gallipoli. He was injured during a torpedo attack and cared for the other injured before himself. For several acts of bravery he was awarded the DSO and Albert Medal.
Scotts Journal November 28th 1911. The snow is falling heavily and is thick with drifts blowing in from the south. The weather changed during the day but did not improve greatly. Scott asks when will the wretched blizzard be over? The walking is better for horses than for the men and as they progressed they came upon high hard sastrugi, widely dispersed and Scott is unsure what this indicates. After their rest the second march was no better then the first. The snow was hitting the men so hard it was stinging them in the face. The last four marches have been difficult but Scott notes they have been without a hitch. Chinaman was shot at the end of the march and Scott describes him as a plucky little chap. They are now 90 miles from the glacier with only four bags of forage left. Bowers tells Scott that the barometer was phenomenally low during the blizzard and last night. Scott comments that this has certainly been the most unexpected and trying summer blizzard yet experienced in this region, I only trust it is over.
Commentary. In looking at the biographies of the men on the expedition I am impressed by their courage and capability. This group of men suffered so much and then returned to face a world at war, each one appears worthy of study in their own right. The comment from Bowers is an important moment as we look at events 100 years ago. The science at our disposal allows us to study temperature trends and indeed the summer of 1911/1912 was an exceptionally harsh period. Scott had covered this terrain before on The Discovery trip, he must have been aware that conditions were worse than his previous marches. But Scott also has experience in making the decision to turn back north, he had made it previously. Poor conditions, weaker horses, depots further north than planned and they are behind the schedule achieved by Shackleton. I wonder what the unspoken pressure of Amundsen was doing to Scott, if he did not achieve success on this trip then someone else would have his prize. Scott was prepared to take risks to achieve his goal.

Wake. Roll. Stand. Walk. Kettle. Water. Coffee tin. Cafetiere. Two spoons. Hot water, not boiling. Gently stir. Wait...................and plunge.
So archaic, so basic, so simple. The Coffee Ritual.
But in this era of clean eating how can something that is so good not be bad for us? How often do we hear that we should cut out caffeine, because it is a toxin poisoning our bodies?
We all know that coffee wakes us up. Scientific research shows that caffeine increases alertness, concentration, vigilance, improves mood, reduces perception of pain and increases time to fatigue. These effects can be so positive, that in elite and professional sport, we actively harness this potential to legally improve athletic performance.
But is your coffee habit actually good for you?
- In women, the metabolism of caffeine is slower during pregnancy, as well as when taking oral contraceptives. This means that the effects of caffeine a felt for longer.
- Cigarette smoking doubles the rate of caffeine clearance by increasing the liver enzyme activity, which may be one of the explanations for the higher rate of caffeine consumption among smokers!
Any negatives? The effects of caffeine in coffee is variable, depending on the sensitivity of each individual. This is because caffeine is primarily broken down in the liver by an enzyme called cytochrome P450 oxidase. Depending on your genetics, some people have more of this enzyme than othersSome people find they get jittery after a few sips. Other side effects include insomnia, irratibility, headache, abdominal cramping and diarrhoea.
So, its best to know your own body and how much caffeine you can tolerate. If you have a good tolerance, limit yourself to a maximum of 6 cups per day. Certain groups such as pregnant women and children should limit the amount. Pregnant women should have no more than 200mg of caffeine per day (approximately 2 cups of coffee).

Standard Model: An Overview of Particle Physics.
The quantum world is notoriously difficult to comprehend. As Niels Bohr famously stated, "Anyone who is not shocked by quantum theory has not understood it." One of the things we pride ourselves on here at FQTQ is breaking down those complex topics into something easily digestible. So, we're going to try to wrangle the impossible, starting with the Standard Model of Particle Physics.

Dover was originally settled in 1623 when William and Edward Hilton settled Cochecho Plantation, becoming the first permanent European settlement in New Hampshire.
The Cochecho Aqueduct Association was incorporated on June 22, 1832 by Ezekiel Hurd, Samuel H. Anderson, Charles Young, Walter Sawyer, William B. Smith, John Burns, Stephen Evans, David Peirce, Andrew Steele, Joseph Smith, Henry A. Foot, Solomon Jenness, Joseph Morrill and Ezra Drowne for the purpose of conveying water by subterraneous pipes into the village of Dover.
The Belknap Aqueduct was incorporated in 1851 by Levi G. Hill, Joseph H. Smith, Moses Paul, and Charles W. Woodman "for the purpose of bringing fresh water into the town of Dover, by subterraneous pipes."
Another Belknap Aqueduct was incorporated in 1857 by Thomas H. Cushing, William Hale, William Burr, Wolcott, Hamlin, George Matthewson, Thomas Stackpole, J. B. Folsom, Samuel L. Wiggin, Zimri Wallingford and George D. Vittum "for the purpose of bringing fresh water into the city of Dover, in subterraneous pipes."
Yet another Belknap Aqueduct was incorporated in 1863 by Thomas H. Cushing, William Hale, Wm. Burr, Wolcott Hamlin, Thomas Stackpole, J. B. Folsom, and Zimri Wallingford "for the purpose of bringing fresh water into the city of Dover, by subterraneous pipes."
The city was authorized to construct water works and to purchase the three existing aqueduct systems in 1889.
The water system is currently owned by the City of Dover.
1823 An Act to incorporate certain persons by the name of the Proprietors of the Dover Aqueduct, July 2, 1823.
1824 An act, to incorporate certain persons by the name of the Dover Landing Aqueduct Company, June 16, 1824.
1832 Petition to incorporate the Cochecho Aqueduct Association, May 14, 1832. Note: An index of New Hampshire Legislative petitions has an entry for this as being filed May 14, 1774 by Cyrus Bangs, but this entry is a typo and has been corrected in the New Hampshire Archive Records..
1832 An Act to incorporate certain persons by the Name of the Cochecho Aqueduct Association, June 22, 1832.
1851 An act incorporating the Belknap Aqueduct. July 5, 1851.
1855 An act to amend the charter of the Dover Landing Aqueduct Company. July 13, 1855.
1857 An act to incorporate the Belknap Aqueduct. June 27, 1857.
1863 An act to incorporate the Belknap Aqueduct. July 2, 1863.
1889 An Act to amend the charter of the City of Dover July 11, 1889.
A special meeting of the Dover City Council was held on 28 June 1887 to consider the building of a public water works system for the City. The public favored the undertaking and on 9 September 1887 the City Council authorized Mayor B. Frank Nealley to "secure and employ a competent and experienced engineer to ascertain water supply and cost of constructing water works." The Mayor's friend, John Holland, Agent of the Cocheco Manufacturing Company, a primary employer in the City, recommended Percy M. Blake, a civil; engineer based in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. Blake conducted a preliminary assessment of the available water supplies within the City and on November 14, 1887 reported them to be sufficient to support a population of 25,000. On 30 November 1887 the voters approved in a special election the construction of municipal water works in a vote of 1326 in favor to 346, opposed. Percy Blake was hired by the City on 8 May 1888 to prepare the plans and specifications. In the first months of 1888 the City negotiated with the three existing aqueduct companies operating in the City for the rights to their water supplies, property and equipment, which were purchased for the following amounts: Cocheco Aqueduct Co., $67,500; Dover Aqueduct Co., $20,000; Dover Landing Aqueduct Co., $13,000.
2012 Index to Petitions at the New Hampshire State Archives ca. 1680 -- 1819 by Frank C. Mevers, PhD. Page 117 shows record of Cyrus Bangs 1774 petition.

BUFFALO, N.Y. As smartphones, tablets and other gadgets become smaller and more sophisticated, the heat they generate while in use increases. This is a growing problem because it can cause the electronics inside the gadgets to fail.
Conventional wisdom suggests the solution is to keep the guts of these gadgets cool.
But a new University at Buffalo research paper hints at the opposite: that is, to make laptops and other portable electronic devices more robust, more heat might be the answer.
of the department's solid-state electronics research group.
He continued: This will hopefully allow us to continue developing more powerful smartphones, tablets and other devices without having a fundamental meltdown in their operation due to overheating.
Bird is the co-lead author along with Jong Han, associate professor UB's Department of Physics and a member of the department's theoretical condensed matter research group.
Contributing authors are Jebum Lee and Jungwoo Song, who both recently earned PhDs in UB's Department of Electrical Engineering; Shiran Xiao, PhD candidate in electrical engineering at UB; and John L. Reno, Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies at Sandia National Laboratories.
Heat in electronic devices is generated by the movement of electrons through transistors, resistors and other elements of an electrical network. Depending on the network, there are a variety of ways, such as cooling fans and heat sinks, to prevent the circuits from overheating.
But as more integrated circuits and transistors are added to devices to boost their computing power, its becoming more difficult to keep those elements cool. Most nanoelectrics research centers are working to develop advanced materials that are capable of withstanding the extreme environment inside smartphones, laptops and other devices.
While advanced materials show tremendous potential, the UB research suggests there may still be room within the existing paradigm of electronic devices to continue developing more powerful computers.
To support their findings, the researchers fabricated nanoscale semiconductor devices in a state-of-the-art gallium arsenide crystal provided to UB by Sandias Reno. The researchers then subjected the chip to a large voltage, squeezing an electrical current through the nanoconductors. This, in turn, increased the amount of heat circulating through the chips nanotransistor.
But instead of degrading the device, the nanotransistor spontaneously transformed itself into a quantum state that was protected from the effect of heating and provided a robust channel of electric current. To help explain, Bird offered an analogy to Niagara Falls.
The water, or energy, comes from a source; in this case, the Great Lakes. Its channeled into a narrow point (the Niagara River) and ultimately flows over Niagara Falls. At the bottom of waterfall is dissipated energy. But unlike the waterfall, this dissipated energy recirculates throughout the chip and changes how heat affects, or in this case doesnt affect, the networks operation.
While this behavior may seem unusual, especially conceptualizing it in terms of water flowing over a waterfall, it is the direct result of the quantum mechanical nature of electronics when viewed on the nanoscale. The current is made up of electrons which spontaneously organize to form a narrow conducting filament through the nanoconductor. It is this filament that is so robust against the effects of heating.
Were not actually eliminating the heat, but weve managed to stop it from affecting the electrical network. In a way, this is an optimization of the current paradigm, said Han, who developed the theoretical models which explain the findings.
The team's research was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy.
UBs solid-state electronics group in the Department of Electrical Engineering conducts research on nanoelectronics, THz and microwave device physics, solar-energy technologies, NEMS-based biosensors, and novel materials synthesis.
The theoretical condensed matter group in the Department of Physics studies a wide range of materials related modeling in many-electron collective effect, semiconductor devices, first-principles design of materials, non-linear dynamics to macroscopic modeling of biomolecules.

Lunch and Learns are back and they are revamped ready to enlightened, inform and entertain during your lunch break. This semester we are discussing the various ways food can contribute to your health and mental state and how to incorporate them into your daily lives.
Our first Lunch and Learn session, Nasty Nutrition Habits Revealed, will kick off Tuesday, February 2nd in the Wellness Classroom. As the days seem to rush past us in one hectic blur, we oftentimes have to succumb to less than ideal food choices. This session will bring awareness to the effects of consuming grab-it and go options and what this does to energy levels, physiology and metabolism. As we recognize the traps we have the tendency of falling in to, we hope this will provide you with the knowledge that will guide you through the confusing processed food labels and help you make better and informed decisions in a snap.
The following session, on February 16th, focuses on the impact nutrition has on your brain. Nutrition: Upgrade Your Brain, will reveal which foods can brighten your mood, encourage clearer thinking and create an overall happier and balanced you! We will also be discussing small positive lifestyle which correlate with intentional nutrition and how this creates even greater control over your life! With this session, discover the ability to live your life calmly, yet to the fullest.
Becoming the best version of yourself, requires consistency and sometimes strategic planning that takes time. To make things easier we have taken even a deeper look inside nutrition and have studied which foods pack the biggest punch per bite. Bringing us to the final session of the semester, Nutrition: Eating Fresh, March 1st. Take a look at superfoods in a different light and see how you can incorporate them into your own daily lives, making Hippocrates, the father of medicine, proud!
In addition to learning the positive impacts various foods can have, you can now discover how to implement them first hand during our cooking demonstration, Monday, February 15th, at 2:00pm. Presented by Priority Health, this demonstration will guide you through creative ways to utilize foods super-packed with nutrients to create delicious meals for the whole family.
Remember upon registering for each session, Well Points+ Members earn 5 points!

Led breakthroughs that could revolutionize the care and prevention of cataracts, the leading cause of vision loss worldwide.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) scientist Rafat Ansari applied lessons from experiments in space and his home kitchen laboratory to develop a safe, non-invasive laser device that could revolutionize the early detection of cataracts and change lives.
The ability of this pioneering device to detect cataract formation well ahead of other diagnostic tools could lessen the need of surgery for patients facing vision loss or impairment through early treatment with medications and lifestyle changes.
Cataracts are a clouding of the lens and the leading cause of vision loss and blindness in the United States and the worldaffecting more than 22 million Americans aged 40 and older, according to Prevent Blindness America. Each year in the United States, about $6.8 billion is spent on direct medical costs for outpatient, inpatient and prescription drug services for cataracts.
Ansaris low-power laser light technique is being used by NASA to examine the long-term impact of space travel on the vision problems of astronauts, and offers exciting possibilities to provide doctors with the ability to detect early signs of Alzheimers, Parkinsons, diabetes and other serious diseases. The technique may also assist vision scientists looking at long-term lens changes due to aging, smoking, diabetes and LASIK surgery.
Through Dr. Ansaris innovative eye scanning equipment and procedure, the eye is now a window to the body, providing critical data that allows doctors to understand the eyes health and eventually the health of the whole body by noninvasively capturing molecular changes indicative of disease, said June Zakrajsek, acting chief of NASAs bioscience and technology branch.
James Logan, a flight surgeon at NASA, said Ansaris invention is at least two to three orders of magnitude stronger than all of the other technologies currently on the market. Other probes rely on visual imaging to determine whether cataracts are present while Ansaris device measures protein changes in the eye to diagnose the onset of cataracts.
For Ansari, the inspiration for his discovery originated close to home.
I was motivated personally by my father who was diagnosed with cataracts, said Ansari. Once I found out how serious this disease is and how it impacts the human body, I wanted to see what impact I could have. I realized that a small part of my work could make a difference in the lives of millions of people.
Ansari, a senior scientist at NASAs Glenn Research Center in Cleveland, had been working for many years on a technique known as dynamic light scattering, which means that moving particles in a solution scatter light at different intensities. Ansaris experiments were conducted in preparation for a zero gravity space environment, where particles such as proteins can grow bigger than on Earth without gravity holding them back.
Ansari closely read the literature on cataracts after his fathers diagnosis, and realized that they are caused by proteins in the lens that cluster abnormally, a process similar to what he was studying in his space experiments.
Lacking financial support, Ansari pursued his theories and research on his own. Much of his work was completed in the kitchen of his home and with the assistance of his then-teenage daughter, where they dissected clouded cow eyes and conducted tests with a hand-held dynamic light scattering device that was able to detect the protein in the lenses.
Ansari incorporated his laser technology into a portable probe and brought his findings to Manuel Datiles of the National Eye Institute at the National Institutes of Health. The device was refined, tested in a human clinical trial and able to detect different levels of the protein in patients and correlate these data with development of cataracts. There are a few prototypes of the device now in existence and being used by eye specialists, but so far there has been no commercial development.
Lesser men would have said that the writing was on the wall and would have moved on, said Jerry Sebag, professor of ophthalmology at the University of Southern California. Rafat remained undaunted. This is a guy who understood the importance of what could be done and persevered despite the challenges.
Ansaris discovery and his own personal journey that brought him to the space agency represent a classic American success story. It was my childhood dream to work for this agency, said Ansari. Like many people of my generation, I was inspired by the moon landing and dreamed of working for NASA.
Born in Pakistan, Ansari completed his graduate education in Canada and came to the United States in 1988. He worked in academia, and joined NASA in 2001 where he has been a leading innovator.
Rafat is the ultimate scientist motivated by human need, said Logan. He is dedicated to bettering the human condition.

Tis' the season. With all this hot weather creeping up on us and scheduling a busy summer to keep the kids occupied, who has time to think of what's best for ourselves? Keep your health in check and list your needs also. This includes sun block, sunglasses, healthy nonperishable foods and snacks, handi-wipes, and plenty of water, water, and more water. Our bodies can survive longer without food than we can without water. Especially is you perspire a lot, be prepared. If you are active you lose more water than if you are sedentary. Diuretics such as caffeine and alcohol cause us to lose water by tricking our bodies into thinking we have more water than we need. Symptoms of mild dehydration include chronic pains in joints and muscles, lower back pain, headaches, and constipation. A strong odor to your urine, along with a yellow or amber color indicates that you are not getting enough water. (Riboflavin, a B Vitamin, will make your urine bright yellow.) Thirst is an obvious sign of dehydration and in fact, you need water long before you feel thirsty. We lose water through urination, respiration, and by sweating.
Our bodies are estimated to be about 60 to 70% water. Blood is mostly water, and our muscles, lungs, and brain all contain a lot of water. Water is needed to regulate body temperature and to provide the means for nutrients to travel to all our organs. Water also transports oxygen to our cells, removes waste, and protects our joints and organs. A good rule of thumb is to take your body weight in pounds and divide that number in half. That gives you the number of ounces of water per day that you need to drink. Your daily need for water can add up to quite a lot.
Regular or Diet Sodas are not a good source of water. Juices and sodas have a lot of sugar in them and aren't a good choice, so don't count them towards your daily amount. Herbal teas that aren't diuretic are fine. Sports drinks contain electrolytes and may be beneficial, just look out for added sugar and calories that you don't need. There are some brands of flavored water available, but some of them have sugar or artificial sweeteners which you don't need. If you get bored with plain water, add a bit of lemon or lime for a touch of flavor.
The best source of water is plain, pure drinking water. I rest my H2O case.

Early 20th century Progressive reformers established elected school boards as a means of shielding public school systems from the politics and patronage of corrupt city governments. Citizens, rather than political dons or their favored appointees, would govern the communitys schools with the communitys interests at heart.
Today, however, elected school boards, especially in Americas troubled cities, are just as apt to contribute to the school systems ills. They often resemble a dysfunctional family, composed of three unlovable types: 1) aspiring politicians for whom this is a rung on the ladder to higher office; 2) former employees of the school system with a score to settle; and 3) single-minded advocates of one dubious cause or another who yearn to use the public schools to impose their particular hang-up on all the kids in town.
These junior politicians often do more harm than good, representing the communitys factions more than its interests. Progressives thought the elected school board would keep politics out of education. In fact, it has immersed our public schools in politics. One need only witness the behavior of the Chicago and New York City school boards before their recent mayoral takeoversor the behavior of the Los Angeles and Dallas school boards today.
Cities across America are beginning to recognize that the traditional school board is no longer the embodiment of participatory democracy it was intended to be. The romantic notion that local school boards are elected by local citizens has been replaced with the reality that these elections are essentially rigged. They are held at odd times, when practically nobody votes except those with a special reason to do so. For example, in 2002, just 4 percent of registered voters in Dallas turned out to participate in July elections that replaced six school board members. And, of course, those motivated voters include a disproportionate number of the school systems own employees.
The teacher unions now dominate many a school board election, or at least have the capacity to do so (see Figure 1). When the board is quiet and rocks no education boats, the union rests. But as we have seen in cities like Milwaukee and Los Angeles, when the board undertakes the kinds of reforms that the union doesnt favor, the union will mobilize to elect friendly candidates. Thus, in 2002, the Los Angeles union unseated a majority of the reform-minded board that had selected former Colorado governor Roy Romer to lead the citys troubled school system. Likewise, in 1995, a union-led coup in Milwaukee produced a majority on that citys school board that reform superintendent Howard Fuller realized he could not work with.
Is it any wonder, then, that cities like New York, Chicago, and Boston have torn down the Chinese wall that was supposed to isolate school districts from city governments and placed responsibility for the schools squarely in the hands of the mayor? In these cities, there is now a single, publicly accountable official in charge, rather than nine wannabe mayors immobilizing the school system with their petty squabbles, power grabs, and turf protecting. If citizens are unhappy with the schools, they can now vote the mayor out of office. This does not eliminate democratic control over the schools; it rechannelsand strengthensit.
Local school boards exist largely to oversee the spending of funds drawn from local property taxes. In this sense, they are supposed to be the communitys accountability mechanism, ensuring that school officials use locally generated resources wisely and responsibly. However, several trends are rendering that role obsolete.
First, there is an increasing recognition that the funding system that school boards perpetuate results in unfair resource disparities between wealthy and poor school districts. It discourages the best teachers from entering the schools where theyre needed most and further segregates families by income and race. The wave of lawsuits involving school finances that have been filed against the states has resulted in states (and, indirectly, Washington) taking ever-greater responsibility for funding local public schools. In the past 50 years, the share of school spending provided by states increased from 40 percent to 50 percent, while the share provided by localities decreased from 57 percent to 43 percent. This trend will only continue.
Second, the standards and accountability movement is rendering the performance of individual schools transparent to parents and communities. Under yesterdays system, school boards were needed to keep watch over the superintendent, assistant superintendents, and other district officials as they managed the school system. Now, however, parents can use the information gleaned from state accountability systems to assess the performance of an individual school or school system.
Third, the choice movement, including charter schools, magnet schools, vouchers, and outsourced school management, has shown us what it means to devolve authority from bureaucratic systems to individual schools and families. Power is flowing downward, to the principal, to the teaching team, and to parents themselves. Once every school is essentially a charter school, there will be no need for a centralized municipal-level body that makes decisions for an entire school system. Individual schools will respond to the needs of their families and employees while the state sets standards and monitors academic results.
School boards are supposed to provide top-down accountability. But these three trendsthe steady centralization of funding, the imposition of statewide accountability systems, and the expansion of choiceare creating a system that favors bottom-up accountability and obviates the need for local boards.
Ultimately, the only way to guarantee that every child receives equal support will be for states to take responsibility for funding the schools, with help from the feds. A statewide taxation and funding system would provide a certain amount of tuition dollars to each child with the amounts varying according to individual needs. For example, disabled or severely disadvantaged children would receive more. Then the money follows the child, in a virtual financial backpack, to the school of the familys choice. Once the state issues its annual report on schools academic progress, safety, and teachers qualifications, families can decide where to send their children and tuition dollars.
With this kind of information and consumer power, there is no need for a locally elected board to advocate for better curriculum or more money at the municipal levelthough individual schools are apt to develop governing boards, as todays charter schools have and as do public schools in England and some other countries.
This would create not only a more equitable system, but also more effective schools. Nearly everyone who has reflected on how the education system should operate tomorrow has concluded that yesterdays locally funded, monopoly-controlled system is out of whack with the way Americans now live. The K-12 school system has not kept pace with our mobility patterns, our communications technology, and, foremost, the way we deliver everything else we value in life. Consumer choice has given America the worlds largest and most dynamic economy. It will also elicit better performance from the nations schools.
In the future, as choice becomes a standard feature of K-12 schooling, the education system will be composed not of centralized, government-run school districts, but of independently operated and competing education-delivery organizations. Most will be housed in traditional bricks and mortar, but some will be virtual, and a wide variety of schools will be found within each sector. Instead of being governed and operated by bureaucracies, these schools will answer to their customers and clients and to the expert educators who lead and teach in them.
Expect school boards to fight these changes every step of the way. After the teacher unions, the state school board association is usually the most influential conservative education force in the entire state. Here we use conservative in the classic sense of wanting to keep things exactly the way theyve always been. At a time when a fundamental overhaul of American education is sorely needed, school boards and their associations have emerged as doughty defenders of the status quo. Fortunately, the changes being wrought by choice and accountability may soon render school boards the organizational dinosaurs of education in the 21st century.
-Chester E. Finn Jr. is president of the Thomas B. Fordham Foundation and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution. Lisa Graham Keegan is the chief executive officer of Education Leaders Council, a member-based organization for reform-minded chief state school officers.

What system is used for property measurements in Guatemala?
No easy answers here. When the Spanish came in 1524, European measurements were based on Marcus Vitruvius (80-70 BC15 AD) De Architectura, known today as the Ten Books of Architecture. According to Vitruvius, architecture is an imitation of nature, which led him to defining his Vitruvian Man as drawn later by Leonardo da Vinci. The drawing and text are sometimes called the Canon of Proportions and is based on ideal human proportions.
The Spanish also used a similar system: a palm is four fingers, a foot is four palms, a cubit is six palms, four cubits make a man, a pace is four cubits, and a man is 24 palms. Other measurements include the length of the outspread arms is equal to the height of a man, the foot is one-seventh of the height of a man and so forth. A bit confusing perhaps as men are different sizes!
Varas were introduced in Mexico by Cortes in 1521 (before Alvarado came to Guatemala) as an official measurement, but regions in Spain used different sized varas. The first viceroy of Spanish America, Don Antonio de Mendoza, implemented the standard measurement of the Vara Castellana de Burgos (0.835905 meters) in the 1536 ordinance.
Thus, Antiguas colonial architecture was all measured in varas and many properties are still measured that way today. A mans long step is about a vara; the blocks located near the Central Park are 100 varas square. This system was implemented by all city councils throughout Guatemala. When a mayor is elected today he still receives the vara edilicia, which was the official measurement up until recently. Indeed, that vara (rod or staff) represents power, authority and justice for each city government.
The metric system was implemented by law in Spain in 1849 but was not adopted officially in Guatemala until 1910. This would have been in certain urban areas but not many other sectors of Guatemala, which were remote at that time. So today ... urban properties may be measured in varas and/or meters; building/construction projects are measured in the metric system and, to confuse things even more, carpenters use the imperial system (inches). This is in urban areas; rural areas are a different story.

Batch files can use environment variables, internal variables, variable functions, or user-defined functions. You can use these variables and functions to determine system status (e.g., the CPU type), resource levels (e.g., the amount of free disk space), file information (e.g., the date and time a file was last modified), and other information (e.g., the current date and time). You can also perform arithmetic operations (including date and time arithmetic), manipulate strings and substrings, extract parts of a filename, and read and write files.
To create temporary variables for use inside a batch file, use the SET command to store the information you want in an environment variable. Pick a variable name that isn't likely to be in use by some other program (for example, PATH would be a bad choice), and use the UNSET command to remove these variables from the environment at the end of your batch file. You can use SETLOCAL and ENDLOCAL to create a "local" environment so that the original environment will be restored when your batch file is finished.
Environment variables used in a batch file may contain either numbers or text. It is up to you to keep track of what's in each variable and use it appropriately; if you don't (for example, if you use %@EVAL to add a number to a text string), you'll get an error message or a meaningless return value.

Although the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University has some impressive exhibits, and a fun, animatronic carnivore, the most significant fossil on display there is hadrosaurus foulkii, the first nearly complete dinosaur skeleton found. It was excavated from Haddonfield marl pit in 1858 and became the first dinosaur skeleton in the world to be mounted for public display in 1868. It was also the fossil that began the Bone Wars between Cope and Marsh.
>For more information on Haddy, as the skeleton is affectionately named, read our post Haddy, the Hadrosaurus in Haddonfield, NJ.
Below are some pictures we took from our visit to the Academy of Natural Sciences. If you ever get a chance to visit, let us know what you think!

Math was never my best subject. That being said, this is my ninth year as a homeschool teacher, and I have had plenty of experience choosing math curriculum. From my wealth of experience, I wanted to share my thoughts on how to choose a homeschool math curriculum without any personal bias.
There are two main methods of teaching math: Spiral and Mastery. Many people will tell you one way is better than the other, but I have found that like most subjects, it all depends on how your child learns.
Spiral Method curriculum programs present a concept in a lesson, then move on to a different concept in the next lesson. However every problem set will have review questions from past concepts. As you go on, the lessons will go back and review previous concepts. The theory here is that you introduce a concept to the student, then you keep coming back around to it (spiraling) so that the student gradually understands and grafts it into their math knowledge. Spiral Method curriculum would include most of your traditional math textbooks: Saxon Math, Abeka, BJU Math, Horizons, Alpha Omega, and Teaching Textbooks, for example.
On the other hand, Mastery Method focuses on teaching a concept and staying on that concept until it is presumed to be mastered. Many times an entire book will center on one concept. The theory here is that a student will be immersed in that concept until they will never forget it. Mastery Method curriculum would include Math-U-See, Singapore Math, The Key To... Series, Video Text, and others.
Each of these companies ranges in its use of spiral and mastery methods: For example, Horizon Math (for the younger grades) moves along much quicker than Teaching Textbooks or even Saxon, which are both also spiral method.
Then there is Life of Fred Math, which we love at our house. Life of Fred uses humorous stories to illustrate math concepts in real life, so that students will learn to think mathematically. If you or your child think math is boring, then Life of Fred is meant to be the antidote.
In my opinion, Life of Fred doesnt fit into either of these categories: It jumps around in no particular order, just like life, and I have yet to see it spiral around. I have heard many people say that Life of Fred is not a stand-alone math curriculum, whereas others staunchly say that it is. In my opinion, here is where the difference is: If your child can learn a concept without having to review it, then Life of Fred can be a stand-alone curriculum. However for most students, review is necessary. We have used Rocket Math to master math facts, for example.
My younger daughter (who is now a homeschool graduate) would have done well with the mastery method, but I didnt really understand it when she was a student. She needed the confidence of completely understanding a concept before she was ready to move on to the next. On the other hand, my fast-moving son would have been bored to tears with the mastery method. He hates it when I explain something to him that he already understands. So the trick is to figure out how your student will learn best. Once you have that figured out, then you can choose a curriculum with more focus.
My son Joel (who is eight) learns math concepts fairly quickly, so our current curriculum choice (Rocket Math and Life of Fred) is working for him. However, I am still unsure that he would remember a concept he learned once three months ago. We will continue to use Life of Fred because it is so much fun and really shows how math is useful in every day life, but I will probably add another curriculum once Joel has finished mastering his math facts.
I will probably add a Spiral Method curriculum such as Saxon Math curriculum. I think Joel does need the review, but he also gets bored and turned off by staying on any subject for too long. With that in mind, a Spiral Method curriculum will be more likely to keep him engaged.
What have been your biggest challenges with homeschooling math? Do you prefer a particular method over another? What curriculum has worked for you? What are you looking for most in a math curriculum? Let us know in the comments below!

Australian coins helps children learn to recognise, identify and describe the coins according to colour, shape and size, and the identifying icon on the tails side. Additional information is provided about the Australian animals and icons featured on the tails side of each coin. This lesson is ready to teach on the interactive whiteboard.
Australian Coins Lets count \$1 gives children practice in counting collections of coins to \$1.
There are three separate sections which can be used over a series of lessons.
1. Count groups of coins of the same value that equal \$1.
2. Count collections of different coins that equal \$1.
3. Make collections of coins to equal \$1.
These lessons are interactive and ready to teach on the interactive whiteboard.
 comparing the value of coins.
It is a perfect game for maths groups to follow-up lessons with Australian Coins and Australian Coins Lets count \$1.

### You're on a roll. Keep up the good work!
 0:01 What is an Angle of Incidence?
Want to watch this again later?
Log in or sign up to add this lesson to a Custom Course.
Damien has a master's degree in physics and has taught physics lab to college students.
Discover what an angle of incidence is and how it relates to light. Then dive further into learning the related topics of incident angles with the reflection and refraction of light.
## What Is an Angle of Incidence?
If you have ever looked at a white light being shined into a prism, the main thing you probably noticed is it being turned into a rainbow. However, did you notice that the light didn't travel straight through the prism? The light changes direction when it enters the prism, and it changes again when it leaves. This bending of light isn't something that's unique to prisms. It's a common occurrence in translucent and transparent materials. We have even come up with unique names for the angles at which the light enters and travels through the material. The angle at which the light enters is called the angle of incidence. The angle of incidence can be defined as the angle between the oncoming ray of light and the normal vector of the surface of the material it is coming into contact with. The normal vector is a perpendicular vector from a plain or surface of an object.
There are three possibilities for what can happen to the light after it comes into contact with an object. The first is absorption. In absorption, the light ray travels no further; it is taken into the object and transformed into energy. This most often takes the form of heat. The second is reflection, where the light ray is bounced off the material instead of absorbed. The final possibility is refraction, in which the light penetrates the object, but instead of being turned into internal energy, it changes direction and continues to travel through the material as light.
It's important to note that light does not often do just one of those three possibilities; rather, it travels in a combination of them. For example, we see color because objects reflect the visible light spectrum of the corresponding colors we see back to our eyes, but they absorb the other wavelengths of the visible light spectrum. Another example would be translucent objects. A translucent material, as opposed to a transparent one, only lets some of the light travel through it and absorbs and reflects the rest of it.
With absorption, there are no further relations between the angle of incidence and what happens to the ray of light, but with reflection and refraction, there is more to learn.
So, if you know either the angle of reflection or the angle of incidence, you automatically know the other as well.
Have you ever been spear fishing, or seen it done on television? The fisherman stands in or above shallow water and tries to spear the fish as they swim by. If they try to hit the fish exactly where they see it, they will miss. The fish is not where it seems to be from above the water. This is an effect of refraction. Light bending as it enters the water is what causes the fish to appear in a different spot from where it actually is.
Much like with the angle of reflection, there is also a relation between the angle of incidence and the angle of refraction. When light enters from one medium into another, it can bend to some degree. The calculation of what degree the light will bend is known as the law of refraction, or Snell's Law. The degree to which the light bends is dependent on both the incidence angle entering the second medium and the speed at which the light travels through the two mediums. The relationship between the speed of light and refraction is given in the index of refraction. You will need to understand the index of refraction in order to understand Snell's Law.
While the speed of light in a vacuum is constant, the speed of light in other mediums can vary, and consequently they have different indices of refraction. Some common examples can be seen in this table.
To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Are you a student or a teacher?
##### Become a Study.com member and start learning now.
Did you know... We have over 200 college courses that prepare you to earn credit by exam that is accepted by over 1,500 colleges and universities. You can test out of the first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level.
Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every imaginable degree, area of study and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you.
Try it risk-free for 30 days!

4. First Step: Observe the object or behavior What can you observe about Odie and Garfield?
5. Step Two: Define the object or behavior How would you define the behavior? Is the behavior positive or negative?
6. Step Three: Making the Inference What judgment can you make about this behavior? Is it enjoyable? Painful?
9. Now its your turn...What can you infer from the following picture? Observe: What are they doing? Define: What does it mean? Infer: What can you tell about their feelings?
10. Now EXPLAIN...Write an explanation of what you were able to infer about Odie and Garfield from the illustration! In the picture, Odie and Garfield are...
11. It works with Dialogue!Step One: OBSERVE Excuse me, Miss, could I...hi, Im sorry, could I um...I mean, is that seat taken? What can you observe about the sentence? The speaker is talking to a young woman. What is the punctuation like? The punctuation has a lot of commas and ellipses. The sentence ends with a question mark.
12. Step Two: DEFINE Lots of commas and ellipses means that the speaker is pausing a lot. The word um means that the speaker is hesitating.
13. Step Three: INFER Pausing a lot and hesitating means that the speaker is uncomfortable speaking to the young woman. He may be nervous.
14. Step Four: EXPLAIN In this sentence, the author uses many commas and ellipses to show that the speaker is nervous when he is asking the young woman if he can sit near her. The fact that the speaker says um a lot probably means that the speaker is shy or hesitant.
15. Odie says Good Job! Try one more!
16. Step One: OBSERVE I grabbed LeSange and screamed, Were doomed! Doomed, I tell you! Hm, he said. We do seem to be in a spot of trouble, dont we? What can you observe about the sentences? The first speaker uses many exclamation points and negative diction such as the word doomed, which is repeated twice. The first speaker says that he screamed. The second speaker does not scream. He ends his sentence with a question mark.
17. Step Two: DEFINE Exclamation points mean that the speaker is very upset or excited. A question mark means that the speaker is curious. Hm is an expression that means that the speaker is thinking.
18. Step Three: INFER Many exclamation points and the word doomed means that the speaker is frightened and excited. The Hm by the second speaker, and the fact that he does not use any exclamation points means that he is not frightened. He may only be curious, or amused.
19. Step Four: EXPLAIN In this passage, the author uses exclamation points and the word doomed twice for the first speakers sentence. This shows that the speaker is scared and really believes that something terrible is about to happen. The dialogue for the second speaker is not excited. He says Hm, which shows that he is curious, or that he really is not interested. There is a contrast between the first speaker and the second speaker.
20. One More Time!Step One: OBSERVE You have no compassion for my poor nerves, said Mrs. Bennett. You mistake me, my dear, her husband said. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least. What can you observe about these sentences? The first speaker is a wife. The second speaker is the husband. There are no exclamation points or question marks. They are speaking to each other.
21. Step Two: DEFINE Because there are no exclamation points or question marks, the two characters are speaking calmly. The wife accuses the husband of not having compassion for her nerves. The husband says that he does, and that he has had compassion for more than twenty years.
22. Step Three: INFER The wife is complaining that her husband does not pay attention to her problems. The husband says that he does. He doesnt fight with her, but he reminds her that he has been listening to her same complaint for twenty years. They have probably been married for a long time. The wife complains a lot, and the husband is tired of hearing about it.
23. Step Four: EXPLAIN In this passage, the author presents a husband and wife. Although their voices are calm (they do not yell, because there are no exclamation points), they each have a complaint. The wife feels that the husband never listens to her problems. The husband, a little sarcastically, replies that he has been listening to her problems for at least twenty years.

# Questions on Algebra: Quadratic Equation answered by real tutors!
 Ad: You enter your algebra equation or inequality - Algebrator solves it step-by-step while providing clear explanations. Free on-line demo . Ad: Algebra Solved!TM: algebra software solves algebra homework problems with step-by-step help! Ad: AlgebratorTM solves your algebra problems and provides step-by-step explanations!

 Ad: AlgebratorTM solves your algebra problems and provides step-by-step explanations! Ad: Algebra Solved!TM: algebra software solves algebra homework problems with step-by-step help!
 Question 605412: log(6x+3)=1+log(x-6)Found 2 solutions by stanbon, bucky:Answer by stanbon(57377) (Show Source): You can put this solution on YOUR website!log(6x+3)=1+log(x-6) ---- log(6x+3) - log(x-6) = 1 ---- log[(6x+3)/(x-6)] = 1 ---- (6x+3)/(x-6) = 10 --- 6x+3 = 10x-60 4x = 63 x = 63/4 ============== cheers, Stan H. ================= Answer by bucky(2189) (Show Source): You can put this solution on YOUR website!Given to solve for x . . Subtract log(x-6) from both sides to get: . . By the rules of logarithms, the subtraction of two logarithms is the same as the logarithm of their division with the divisor being the quantity in the negative logarithm. So we can writ that the above equation is equivalent to: . . Next convert this to exponential form by raising the base (base 10) of the logarithm to the power which is on the right side of the equal sign and setting this equal to the quantity that the logarithm operator is acting on. This results in: . . The 10 to the first power is just 10. So the equation is: . . Get rid of the denominator on the left side by multiplying both sides by x - 6: . . . Do the distributed multiplication on the right side by multiplying 10 times each of the two terms in the parentheses, and the result is: . . Subtract 10x from both sides: . . Subtract 3 from both sides: . . Multiply both sides by -1: . . Solve for x by dividing both sides by 4 and you arrive at the solution: . . . Hope this helps you to understand how this problem can be worked by using the properties of logarithms in a logical way. .

This mock test of Test: Grouping And Tabulation Of Data for Class 9 helps you for every Class 9 entrance exam. This contains 10 Multiple Choice Questions for Class 9 Test: Grouping And Tabulation Of Data (mcq) to study with solutions a complete question bank. The solved questions answers in this Test: Grouping And Tabulation Of Data quiz give you a good mix of easy questions and tough questions. Class 9 students definitely take this Test: Grouping And Tabulation Of Data exercise for a better result in the exam. You can find other Test: Grouping And Tabulation Of Data extra questions, long questions & short questions for Class 9 on EduRev as well by searching above.
### The consecutive class marks of a data having continuous class intervals having class width as 5, have a gap of ________ between them.
26, 35, 94, 48, 82, 105, 53, 0, 39, 42, 71, 0, 64, 15, 34, 67, 0, 42, 124, 84, 54, 48, 139, 64, 47.
Secondary data refers to data that was collected by someone other than the user. Common sources of secondary data for social science include censuses, information collected by government departments, organisational records and data that was originally collected for other research purposes.

Q. What is static head and how is the static head calculated for a system that contains a fluid at different temperatures?
If the system contains fluids at different temperatures the fluid density will vary. So which fluid density should be used in the equation: the density of the hotter fluid, the colder fluid, or an average density? How much difference does it make? Does it affect the differential pressure head or differential elevation head component of static head?
At first glance , based on the equations, it appears that the fluid density will affect the differential pressure head component. But the pressure difference between the two tanks has to be overcome regardless of the densities of the fluid between the two tanks. And since static head is a portion of the Total Head at the pump, the density of the fluid in the pump is used in the pressure head component of the static head calculation.
It is actually the differential elevation head component that is affected by the fluid density. A column of fluid of a given height will equate to a pressure at the bottom of the column, which will be different compared to the same column of fluid with a different density. It is the differential elevation head component that must be adjusted to ensure the terms of elevation head are related to the fluid at the pump.
Consider the following open systems in which water is pumped from a supply tank (bottom elevation = 0 ft, liquid level = 10 ft, and surface pressure = 0 psig) to an elevated product tank (bottom elevation = 150 ft, liquid level = 10 ft, and surface pressure = 10 psig).
The first system is pumping water at 60F and the second system has a heat exchanger at the 25 ft elevation that heats the water up to 200F.
This value of static head can be confirmed using PIPE-FLO by selecting Graph Resistance Curve from a pump's context menu, and looking at the Head value where the blue line intersects the Y axis.
The Y intercept is this screen shot is 173 ft. It is circled in red and shown at the bottom of the graph by placing the curser on the line.
The Y intercept in this screen shot is 168 ft. It is circled in red and shown at the bottom of the graph by placing the curser on the line.
The difference in the calculated static head between the two systems may or may not be significant enough to justify calculating the density correction in the system, depending on the degree of accuracy required in the calculations and the magnitude of the difference between the fluid densities.
For reference to older versions of PIPE-FLO see attachments below.

Do they allow one to do more work?
Not really, at best they make completing a task easier.
So then what do Machines do?
 Change the direction of the force.
while the force is applied.
Work in N.m which is a joule (J).
 A combination of the above.
A cart is pushed to the right as illustrated.
distance cart is moved 4.00 m.
How much work is done on the cart?
distance box is moved 20. m.
A box is lifted as illustrated.
fulcrum and the effort on the other side.
The Fulcrum is the pivot point.
lift or the output of the machine.
lift the load or the input of the machine.
fulcrum and the Effort on the other side.
much farther than the Load.
900 N. We multiplied the input force by 3.
We say that we have a Mechanical Advantage, MA.
We can lift 3 times more than our input Effort.
moving the Load 13 as much.
and the distance from the Load to the fulcrum.
given the variable name x.
else that may have to be moved with it.
This will become clearer when we look at a 2nd class lever.
the lever along with the load.
the Effort is 150 N.
There is a lab part of the competition.
for a lever that is in static equilibrium.
lever (seesaw), that is balanced by itself.
F = 0, that is netF = 0, no unbalanced forces.
 = 0, that is there are no unbalanced torques.
side balances the right side.
What if the force is 24 N, what torque is applied?
will use the letter x as the symbol for lever arm.
A torque of 29 N.m will rotate the lever CCW.
so that the left side would go down.
and it does not rotate.
zero and the force creates no torque.
gravity of the seesaw is on the fulcrum.
How do we analyze this situation?
First, we need to draw a torque diagram of the seesaw.
This is a free body diagram which includes the lever arms.
better that we avoid that situation.
people are not the same weight (mass)?
centered on the fulcrum, is 4.0 m long, and weighs 700 N.
to be in static equilibrium?
rotation, so its lever arm is zero.
be longer than 1.00 meter.
Given small mass placed on one side.
Given unknown large mass on the other.
move the large mass close enough to the fulcrum.
the weight of the lever.
(FS)(xS) = (FB)(xB) and you can solve for any value.
object or the force of gravity (Fg) acting on the object.
on the planet Earth (9.8 N/kg).
newtons and mass is measured in grams or kilograms (kg).
actually measured its mass in grams.
one end of the lever.
Place the unknown large mass on the short side.
Then place the small mass on the long side.
rotation, so its lever arm is zero.
rotation, so its lever arm is zero.
will be placed 10.0 cm from the fulcrum.
lever may not be longer than 50.0 cm.
the string connecting the levers.
unknown big mass is 10.0 cm from the fulcrum.
the small mass is 32.7 cm from its fulcrum.
16.0 cm from the fulcrum.
18.0 cm from the fulcrum.
 You must build your own lever system.
your fulcrum depending on the given masses.
Second Class Lever that can rotate.
The mechanical advantage is 2.
be lifted by the Effort.
also is a first class lever that can rotate.
ratio of the diameters. IMA = dE/dL.
All these are examples of a wheel and Axle.
An inclined plane is basically a ramp that is stationary.
All these are examples of wedges.
as a class 2 Lever. Which one? How?
This is actually a compound machine.
The teeth are wedges that cut into the wood.
The whole blade is a wheel and axle.
These too are compound machines.
The teeth are wedges that cut the wires.
The handles make a class 1 lever.

7. Answer is sum of volume contributed by each face.
we need only faces which are perpendicular to a particular axis lets take it as z axis since if you know all faces of a cube perpendicular to z axis then you can predict the other faces so that is just an extra information.
If there are three points (x1,y,z),(x2,y,z) and (x3,y,z) given in order as shown in fig. then x2 is an unnecessary point removing that point will still result in the same line so remove such points. Similarly apply for y as shown in fig.
Now to find empty cubes we need to decide the sign of faces . if the volume below some face is empty its sign is negative. Now to decide which face is below which face we have to short faces on the basis of there heights along z axis.
1. Among the points with highest Y value in a face find one with least x value let this point be (X,Y,Z).
2. Now for each face above it starting from the one just above it in terms of height with respect to Z axis find the no of horizontal lines(parallel to x axis) passing through the point(X,y,Z) such that y >= Y.
3. If the count is odd it means the face is covering current face .
To find area of a face using co-ordinates (xi,yi) iterate over cordinates .Take the point (x1,y1) and next point (x2,y2) and add up to the answer (x1*y2 - y1*x2).do it for all the points and (sum/2) is the area of face.
### 7. Answer is sum of volume contributed by each face.
To get the c++ code for reference request me for the same via my email prince.ranawat@gmail.com i will share link to my code with you.

is 12m to the west of Point L. Point M is 8m to the north of Point L.
with respect to point H?
then which of the following points will form a straight line?
the positions above W but below G.
the following does not belong to the group?
96. How many boxes are kept between B and W?
as bx ko oy dg.
coded in the same code language?
be coded as el ko.
Eight people are sitting in a straight line.
C. G sits at one of the positions to the left of both H and E. E faces north.
76. Who is sitting second to the left of H?
1) Only two people sit between B and C. 2) None of the given statements is true.
3) A faces south. 4) D sits at one of the extreme ends of the line.
5) F and H face the same direction.
a group. Which one of them does not belong to the group?
1) if only conclusion I follows. 2) if only conclusion II follows.
3) if either conclusion I or II follows. 4) if both conclusion I and II follow.
5) if neither conclusion I nor II follows.
a few rings are carrots.
Only a few carrots are phones.
Conclusions: I. No ring is a phone.
All watches can never be carrots.
82. Statements: No test is a paper.
a few papers are registers.
Conclusions: I. All tests being registers is a possibility.
No paper is a book.
83. Statements: Only a few breads are juices.
a few juices are toasters.
Conclusions: I. All breads being toasters is a possibility.
At least some juices are pans.
84. Statements: Only a few wires are loops.
Conclusions: I. At least some wires are circles.
bags, if F + E = 29 kg and F + B = 34 kg, then B + D = _________?
90. Which is the third heaviest bag?
jl dg el hv ...
jl dg el hv ....
bx ko oy dg ....
Alone dg and journey bx ....
conclusion II does not follow.
second + third (I + I =) No conclusion. Hence conclusion I does not follow.
conclusion I nor II follows.
are not tests. But the possibility in I exists. Hence conclusion I follows.
are not books. Hence conclusion II does not follow.
conclusion. But the possibility in I exists. Hence conclusion I follows.
are pans. Hence conclusion II follows.
circles (I). Hence conclusion I follows.
rectangles. Hence conclusion II follows.
weight of C will be 15 kg.
8m towards east of Point H.

A lawn roller in the form of a hollow cylinder of mass M is pulled horizontally with a constant force F applied by a handle attached to the axle. If it rolls without slipping, find the acceleration and the frictional force.
Let R1 be the radius of the hollow and R2 the outer radius, and (alpha) the angular acceleration.
Sum Fx= F - f.
Where n = normal reaction and f = friction force. Applying Sum F = M*a, we get n=M*g ....as ay=0.
F - f = M*ax ....the equation for the translational motion of the center of mass. And where ax and ay are the accelerations in the x and y directions resprctively.
The question is, is this correct or not? And where is it wrong?

Quick Answer: What Can Equal 23?
What are the first 4 multiple of 6?
Here again are the multiples of 6, 0, 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, 66, 72, 78, 84, 90, 96,....
What are the factors of 42?
The factors of 42 are 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 14, 21, and 42.
Are all factors of 16 even?
The Factors of 16 are all the integers (positive and negative whole numbers) that you can evenly divide into 16. 16 divided by a Factor of 16 will equal another Factor of 16. The Postive Factors of 16 are therefore all the numbers we used to divide (divisors) above to get an even number.
Which is the smallest prime number?
33 = 1 x 33 or 3 x 11. Factors of 33: 1, 3, 11, 33. Prime factorization: 33 = 3 x 11. When 33 is a clue in the FIND THE FACTORS 1 12 puzzles, always use 3 and 11 as the factors.
What are the first 5 factors of 16?
The factors of 16 are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16.
The factor pairs of the number 48 are: 1 x 48, 2 x 24, 3 x 16, 4 x 12, and 6 x 8.
What two numbers make 23?
The factors of 23 are 1 and 23. Since 23 is a prime number, therefore, it has only two factors.
What is the prime factorization for 23?
Factors of 23 by Prime Factorization It has only two factors, i.e., the number 1 and the number 23 itself. So the prime factorization of the number 23 is 23.
Is 23 a prime number Yes or no?
List of prime numbers up to 100: 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, 43, 47, 53, 59, 61, 67, 71, 73, 79, 83, 89, 97, ...
What are the factors of 20?
Factors of 20Factors of 20: 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 and 20.Negative Factors of 20: -1, -2, -4, -5, -10 and -20.Prime Factors of 20: 2, 5.Prime Factorization of 20: 2 2 5 = 22 5.Sum of Factors of 20: 42.
22 = 1 x 22 or 2 x 11. Factors of 22: 1, 2, 11, 22. Prime factorization: 22 = 2 x 11. When 22 is a clue in the FIND THE FACTORS 1 12 puzzles, use 2 and 11 as the factors.
Solution: The factors of 25 are 1, 5, and 25 but when we divide 25 by 6, 8, and 9, it leaves a reminder.
What can equal to 24?
The factor pairs of 24 are: 1 x 24, 2 x 12, 3 x 8, and 4 x 6.
What are the 5 factors of 16?
Factors of 16 are numbers that, when multiplied in pairs give the product as 16. There are 5 factors of 16, which are 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16. Here, 16 is the biggest factor. The Prime Factors of 16 are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and its Factors in Pairs are (1, 16), (2, 8), and (4, 4).
What are the first 5 multiples of 10?
Multiples of 10 are numbers like 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, and so on.
What are the factors of 21?
The sum of all factors of 21 is 32 and its factors in Pairs are (1, 21) and (3, 7).Factors of 21: 1, 3, 7 and 21.Negative Factors of 21: -1, -3, -7 and -21.Prime Factors of 21: 3, 7.Prime Factorization of 21: 3 7 = 3 7.Sum of Factors of 21: 32.

why is 352 half of 362 ?
Median divides triangle area in half?
how is 35 a median ?
Yes, sorry, I didn't make the construction very clear.......
why will 87 meet 6 ?
i still dont get 876 thing..
yep..i followed every bit till now..
72 || 84, agree ?
so you're saying those 2 //gms are congruent..
the diagonal in the ||gram 7248 translated to where ?
yes,,the 2 //gms are congruent..
that one we already knew right ?
we knew 5 was the mid point quite earlier..after that assumption, everything fitted..those 2 became congruent //gms and everything else..
so only assumption we need to prove is 36 is a median, right ?
and big thank you to @ganeshie8 ..your idea was used here after all..
I managed to get an outline of this just with algebra --- what a mess!!

If it's not what You are looking for, type integer numbers into the boxes below and see the solution.
## What is 10 less than 2681?
We are looking for a new number which is 10 less than 2681.
We will get the new number by subtracting 10 from 2681.
And finally the solution for: What number is 10 less than 2681?

Q1: If x and y are directly proportional and when x = 13, y = 39, which of the following is not a possible pair of corresponding values of x and y ?
Thus x/y = 13/39 = 1/3. Options (a), (b) and (d) have the same ratio while option (c) does not.
Q2: Which of the following is in direct proportion?
(a) One side of a cuboid and its volume.
(b) Speed of a vehicle and the distance travelled in a fixed time interval.
(c) Change in weight and height among individuals.
(d) Number of pipes to fill a tank and the time required to fill the same tank.
Answer: (b) Speed of a vehicle and the distance travelled in a fixed time interval.
 Speed / distance = fixed ratio.
Q3: Both u and v vary directly with each other. When u is 10, v is 15, which of the following is not a possible pair of corresponding values of u and v?
Option (C) does not maintain the same ratio.
(a) directly with each other.
(b) inversely with each other.
(c) neither directly nor inversely with each other.
(d) sometimes directly and sometimes inversely with each other.
Answer: (d) sometimes directly and sometimes inversely with each other.
More diesel means more distance covered. It is a case of direct variation.
Higher the speed, less time will it take to finish the journey. It is a case of inverse propotion.
Q7: Which of the following vary inversely with each other?
(a) speed and distance covered.
(b) distance covered and taxi fare.
(c) distance travelled and time taken.
(d) speed and time taken.
Answer: (d) speed and time taken.
(c) neither in direct nor in inverse proportion.
(d) sometimes in direct and sometimes in inverse proportion.
Less people, food will last more days. It is an inverse proportion.
(a) Amrita takes 18 hours to travel 720 kilometres. Time taken by her to travel 360 kilometres is _______.
(b) If x and y are inversely proportional then _____ = k where k is positive constant.
(c) If x = 5y, then x and y vary ______ with each other.
(d) If xy = 10, then x and y vary ______ with each other.
(e) x and y are said to vary directly with each other if for some positive number k, ______ =k.
(f) If 12 pumps can empty a reservoir in 20 hours, then time required by 45 such pumps to empty the same reservoir is ______ hours.

Im not sure how we got here, but we now live in a world where a lot of people consider a 10-point tiebreak equivalent to a set. Apparently its more fan-friendly and better for television. And of course its faster.
Whatever its practical uses, its obvious that the first-to-10 breaker isnt the same as a set. Ill leave the moral debate to others; lets take a statistical approach.
In general, the more points (or games, or sets) required to win a match, the more likely it is that the better player wins. Some commentators have taken to calling the 10-point breakers shootouts, and for good reason. Reduce the number of points required to win, and you increase the role played by luck.
Of course, sometimes a shootout is the best idea. Youve got to end a match somehow, and when players end up equal after two sets, four sets, or four sets and twelve games, its all the more likely that luck will have to intervene. But the structure of the match determines just how much luck is permitted to play a part.
To compare a 10-point tiebreak with the set it replaces, we need to know how much more luck it introduces into the game. For that, we need an example to work with.
Take two players: Player A wins 70% of points on serve, and Player B wins 67% of points on serve. Playing best of three tiebreak sets, Player A has a 63.9% chance of winning the match.
If A and B split sets, As probability of winning falls to 59.3%. In other words, the shorter time frame makes it more likely that B gets lucky, or is able to put together an unusually good run of play long enough to win the match.
If the match is decided by a 10-point tiebreak, however, As probability of winning falls all the way to 56.0%, erasing more than one-third of the favorites edge in the third set. In fact, the 10-point breaker is barely more favorable to A than a typical 7-pointer, in which A would have a 55.1% chance.
Somehow I dont think anyone would advocate replacing the deciding set with a 7-point tiebreak. Yet a 10-point tiebreak is much closer to its 7-point cousin than it is to a full set.
Adding a few more points doesnt resolve the discrepancy, either. To maintain Player As 59.3% chance of winning, the third set would have to be replaced by a 26-point tiebreak. But that, Im sure, wouldnt attract many new advertisers.
1. Always with the facts and figures and sober analyses! Cant you just be driven by fear and politics like the rest of us?
1. Who said I was sober?
Wow! Thanks for doing the math for those of us not so gifted! This is fascinating. The numbers tell the story.
3. Jeff Good post on a topic that needed revisiting. I recall reading that before the SuperBreaker (10 points) was introduced instead of 3rd sets in doubles, the Bryans and most other top seeds were opposed to it on the grounds that they would lose more often than they would in a 3 settter. Their acceptance after a year was influenced by the results of a study of the first 12 months results of all matches between seeds and unseeded teams, indicating that seeded teams had won almost the exact same percentage of the time.
If this was this case then, I wonder if its continued to be the case, and if so, what might explain it.

One of two cards is black on one side and white on the other side. The second card is black on both sides. One card is selected at random and the side facing up is black. What is the probability that the other side of the card is white?
There are eight possible card arrangements with equal probability. The first of each pair listed below is the first draw. B' is one of the black sides of the two-sided black card.
B/W and B/B'; B/W and B'/B; B/B' and W/B; B/B' and B/W; B'/B and W/B; B'/B and B/W.
Two of those six result in white for the second draw. The probability of white is 1/3.
Here's a chalenging one that i can't do at all. A deck of cards has 6 yellow, 6 green, and 5 black cards. You pick four cards from the deck. Cards are not returned after they are picked. What's the probability of picking- first not ...
a card is picked from a pack containing 52 cards . it is then replaced and a second card is picked. Find the probability that a)both cards are the seven of diamonds, b)the first card is a heart and the second a spade. c)one card is ...
if one card is selected at random from a standard deck of 52 cards, what is the probability of choosing a black card or a king?
One card is selected at random from a deck of cards. Determine the probability that the card is a black heart.
One card is selected from a deck of playing cards. Determine the probability of selecting: a card greater than 9 or a black card.
Laurie is holding 6 red cards and 7 black cards. If two cards are selected at random(w/out replacement), what is the probability that the first card selected is red and the second is black?
Need help on how to solve this problem.. Five cards are chosen from a deck of playing cards and put into a pile. Three of the cards are red and 2 of the cards are black. A second pile is made using 2 red cards and b black cards. One ...

I am the owner, or an agent authorized to act on behalf of the owner, of the copyrighted work described.
Download Policy: Content on the Website is provided to you AS IS for your information and personal use and may not be sold / licensed / shared on other websites without getting consent from its author.While downloading, if for some reason you are not able to download a presentation, the publisher may have deleted the file from their server.
Binomial distributions are models for some categorical variables, typically representing the number of successes in a series of n trials.
 The total number of observations n is fixed in advance.
 Each observation falls into just 1 of 2 categories: success and failure.
 The outcomes of all n observations are statistically independent.
 All n observations have the same probability of success, p.
We record the next 50 births at a local hospital. Each newborn is either a boy or a girl.
We express a binomial distribution for the count proportionsX of successes among n observations as a function of the parameters n and p:B(n,p).
 The parameter n is the total number of observations.
 The parameter p is the probability of success on each observation.
 The count of successes X can be any whole number between 0 and n.
A coin is flipped 10 times. Each outcome is either a head or a tail. The variable X is the number of heads among those 10 flips, our count of successes.
On each flip, the probability of success, head, is 0.5. The number X of heads among 10 flips has the binomial distribution B(n = 10, p = 0.5).
Binomial distributions describe the possible number of times that a particular event will occur in a sequence of observations.
They are used when we want to know about the occurrence of an event, not its magnitude.
 In a clinical trial, a patients condition may improve or not. We study the number of patients who improved, not how much better they feel.
 Is a person ambitious or not? The binomial distribution describes the number of ambitious persons, not how ambitious they are.
 In quality control we assess the number of defective items in a lot of goods, irrespective of the type of defect.
A manufacturing company takes a sample of n = 100 bolts from their production line. X is the number of bolts that are found defective in the sample. It is known that the probability of a bolt being defective is 0.003.
Does X have a binomial distribution?
 No, because there is not a fixed number of observations.
 No, because the observations are not all independent.
 No, because there are more than two possible outcomes for each observation.
 No, because the probability of success for each observation is not the same.
A survey-taker asks the age of each person in a random sample of 20 people. X is the age for the individuals.
Does X have a binomial distribution?
 No, because there is not a fixed number of observations.
 No, because the observations are not all independent.
 No, because there are more than two possible outcomes for each observation.
A fair die is rolled and the number of dots on the top face is noted. X is the number of times we have to roll in order to have the face of the die show a 2.
Does X have a binomial distribution?
 No, because there is not a fixed number of observations.
 No, because the observations are not all independent.
 No, because there are more than two possible outcomes for each observation.
 No, because the probability of success for each observation is not the same.
The number of ways of arranging k successes in a series of n observations (with constant probability p of success) is the number of possible combinations (unordered sequences).
Where k = 0, 1, 2, ..., or n.
 The binomial coefficient n_choose_k uses the factorialnotation !.
 Note that 0! = 1.
The binomial coefficient counts the number of ways in which k successes can be arranged among n observations.
The probability that a binomial random variable takes any range of values is the sum of each probability for getting exactly that many successes in n observations.
The frequency of color blindness (dyschromatopsia) in the Caucasian American male population is estimated to be about 8%. We take a random sample of size 25 from this population.
What is the probability that exactly five individuals in the sample are color blind?
A population contains a proportion p of successes. If the population is much larger than the sample, the count X of successes in an SRS of size n has approximately the binomial distribution B(n, p).
The n observations will be nearly independent when the size of the population is much larger than the size of the sample. As a rule of thumb, the binomial sampling distribution for counts can be used when the population is at least 20 times as large as the sample.
Effect of changing p when n is fixed.
For small samples, binomial distributions are skewed when p is different from 0.5.
The frequency of color blindness (dyschromatopsia) in the Caucasian American male population is estimated to be about 8%. We take a random sample of size 25 from this population.
The population is definitely larger than 20 times the sample size, thus we can approximate the sampling distribution by B(n = 25, p = 0.08).
 What is the probability that five individuals or fewer in the sample are color blind?
 What is the probability that more than five will be color blind?
 What is the probability that exactly five will be color blind?
Probability distribution and histogram for the number of color blind individuals among 25 Caucasian males.
What are the mean and standard deviation of the count of color blind individuals in the SRS of 25 Caucasian American males?
What if we take an SRS of size 10? Of size 75?
Suppose that for a randomly selected high school student who has taken a college entrance exam, the probability of scoring above a 650 is 0.30. A random sample of n = 9 students was selected.
What is the probability that exactly two of the students scored over 650 points?
What are the mean and standard deviation of the number of students in the sample who have scores above 650?
The proportion of successes can be more informative than the count. In statistical sampling the sample proportion of successes, , is used to estimate the proportion p of successes in a population.
 Because the mean is p, we say that the sample proportion in an SRS is an unbiased estimator of the population proportion p.
 The variability decreases as the sample size increases. So larger samples usually give closer estimates of the population proportion p.
If n is large, and p is not too close to 0 or 1, the binomial distribution can be approximated by the normal distribution N(m = np,s2 = np(1 p)). Practically, the Normal approximation can be used when both np10 and n(1 p) 10.
Why would we want to use the normal approximation to the binomial instead of just using the binomial distribution?
 The normal distribution is more accurate.
 The normal distribution uses the mean and the standard deviation.
 The normal distribution works all the time, so use it for everything.
 The binomial distribution is awkward and takes too long if you have to sum up many probabilities. The binomial distribution looks like the normal distribution if n is large.
 The binomial distribution is awkward and takes too long if you have to multiply many probabilities. The binomial distribution looks like the normal distribution if n is large.
The sampling distribution of is never exactly normal. But as the sample size increases, the sampling distribution of becomes approximately normal.
The normal approximation is most accurate for any fixed n when p is close to 0.5, and least accurate when p is near 0 or near 1.
The frequency of color blindness (dyschromatopsia) in the Caucasian American male population is about 8%.
We take a random sample of size 125 from this population. What is the probability that six individuals or fewer in the sample are color blind?
The normal approximation is reasonable, though not perfect. Here p = 0.08 is not close to 0.5 when the normal approximation is at its best.
A sample size of 125 is the smallest sample size that can allow use of the normal approximation (np = 10 and n(1 p) = 115).
The larger the sample size, the better the normal approximation suits the binomial distribution.
Avoid sample sizes too small for np or n(1 p) to reach at least 10 (e.g., n = 50).
The normal distribution is a better approximation of the binomial distribution, if we perform a continuity correction where x = x + 0.5 is substituted for x, and P(X x) is replaced by P(X x + 0.5).
Why? A binomial random variable is a discrete variable that can only take whole numerical values. In contrast, a normal random variable is a continuous variable that can take any numerical value.
P(X 10) for a binomial variable is P(X 10.5) using a normal approximation.
P(X < 10) for a binomial variable excludes the outcome X = 10, so we exclude the entire interval from 9.5 to 10.5 and calculate P(X 9.5) when using a normal approximation.
The frequency of color blindness (dyschromatopsia) in the Caucasian American male population is about 8%. We take a random sample of size 125 from this population.
The sampling distribution of a statistic is the distribution of all possible values taken by the statistic when all possible samples of a fixed size n are taken from the population. It is a theoretical idea we do not actually build it.
The sampling distribution of a statistic is the probability distribution of that statistic.
We take many random samples of a given size n from a population with mean mand standard deviations.
Some sample means will be above the population mean m and some will be below, making up the sampling distribution.
 The mean, or center of the sampling distribution of , is equal to the population mean m :mx = m.
 The standard deviation of the sampling distribution is s/n, where n is the sample size :sx= s/n.
There is no tendency for a sample mean to fall systematically above or below m, even if the distribution of the raw data is skewed. Thus, the mean of the sampling distribution is an unbiasedestimate of the population mean m it will be correct on average in many samples.
The standard deviation of the sampling distribution measures how much the sample statistic varies from sample to sample. It is smaller than the standard deviation of the population by a factor of n. Averages are less variable than individual observations.
When a variable in a population is normally distributed, the sampling distribution of for all possible samples of size n is also normally distributed.
If the population is N(m, s) then the sample means distribution is N(m, s/n).
In a large population of adults, the mean IQ is 112 with standard deviation 20. Suppose 200 adults are randomly selected for a market research campaign.
 Large samples are not always attainable.
 Sometimes the cost, difficulty, or preciousness of what is studied drastically limits any possible sample size.
 Blood samples/biopsies: No more than a handful of repetitions are acceptable. Oftentimes, we even make do with just one.
 Opinion polls have a limited sample size due to time and cost of operation. During election times, though, sample sizes are increased for better accuracy.
 Not all variables are normally distributed.
 Income, for example, is typically strongly skewed.
 Is still a good estimator of m then?
Central Limit Theorem: When randomly sampling from any population with mean mand standard deviation s, when n is large enough, the sampling distribution of is approximately normal: ~N(m, s/n).
Lets consider the very large database of individual incomes from the Bureau of Labor Statistics as our population. It is strongly right skewed.
 We take 1000 SRSs of 100 incomes, calculate the sample mean for each, and make a histogram of these 1000 means.
 We also take 1000 SRSs of 25 incomes, calculate the sample mean for each, and make a histogram of these 1000 means.
Which histogram corresponds to samples of size 100? 25?
It depends on the population distribution. More observations are required if the population distribution is far from normal.
 A sample size of 25 is generally enough to obtain a normal sampling distribution from a strong skewness or even mild outliers.
 A sample size of 40 will typically be good enough to overcome extreme skewness and outliers.
In many cases, n = 25 isnt a huge sample. Thus, even for strange population distributions we can assume a normal sampling distribution of the mean and work with it to solve problems.
 Describe the histogram. What do you assume for the population distribution?
 For samples of size 5?
 For samples of size 15?
 For samples of size 50?

# A batsman makes a score of 81 runs in the 16th match and thus increases his average runs per match by 3. What is his average after the 16th match?
Average of 8 numbers is 40. The average of first three numbers is 46 and the average of next two numbers is 50. If the sixth number is 6 and 10 less than seventh and eighth number respectively, then what is the value of eighth number?
1800 chocolates were distributed among the students of a class. Each student got twice as many chocolates as the number of students in the class. Calculate the number of students in the class.
The average score in Mathematics of 90 students of sections A and B together is 49. The number of students in A was 25% more than that of B, and the average score of the students in B was 20% higher than that of the students in A. What is the average score of the students in A?
Out of the five subjects, the average marks of Suman in first 3 Subjects was 81 and the average marks in the last 3 subjects was 74. If her marks in the third subject was 65, then what was her average marks in all the subjects?
The average of 26 numbers is 37. One more number is added and the new average becomes 41. What is that new number?

As algebra has taken a more prominent role in mathematics education, many are advocating introducing children to it in primary school (e.g., Carraher, Schliemann, Brizuela, & Earnest, 2006; Kaput, 2000; National Council of Teacher of Mathematics, 2000), and open number sentences can be a good context to address this goal. Students are frequently introduced to equations by considering number sentences with an unknown where a figure or a line is used instead of a variable, as in _ + 4 = 5 + 7 (Radford, 2000). Discussions about these equations and the properties they illustrate can help students to learn arithmetic with understanding and to develop a solid base for the later formal study of algebra by helping them to become aware of the structure underneath arithmetic (Carpenter, Franke, & Levi, 2003; Kieran, 1992; Resnick, 1992). Unfortunately students, conceptions about the equal sign interfere with their ability to successfully solve and analyze equations (Carpenter et al., 2003; Molina & Ambrose, 2006). Our aim in this paper is to describe a teaching experiment in which children developed an understanding of the equal sign and began to analyze expressions in sophisticated ways.
When elementary students encounter the equal sign in arithmetic sentences they tend to perceive it as an operational symbol, that is a "do something" signal, and tend to react negatively when number sentences challenge their conceptions about this symbol as in sentences of the form c = a + b. Behr, Erlwanger, and Nichols (1980) observed that most six-year old students thought that such sentences were "backwards" and tended to change them to c + a = b or a + b = c. Children also did not accept non-action sentences, that is sentences with no operational symbol (e.g., 3 = 3) or operational symbols on both sides (e.g., 3 + 5 = 7 + 1), and often changed them to action sentences, that is sentences with all the operations in one side of the equation. For example they changed 3 + 2 = 2 + 3 to 3 + 2 + 2 + 3 = 10 and 3 = 3 to 3 + 0 = 3 or 3 - 3 = 0.
In studies about elementary students' answers to open sentences of the forms a = a, c + a = b, a + b = c and a + b = c + d (Falkner, Levi, & Carpenter 1999; Freiman & Lee, 2004; Kieran, 1981), students provided a variety of responses: repeating one of the numbers in the sentence, the sum or differences of two numbers of the sentence, the sum of all the numbers in the sentence, and the correct answer. In sentences of the form a + b = _ + d, students tended to answer the sum of a + b or to write it as a string of operations.
These studies illustrate that children tend to read open number sentences from left to right and perform the computation as they go along. When children face unfamiliar number sentences, that is sentences different from the conventional form a [+ or -] b = c, they have trouble interpreting the equal sign as a symbol representing equivalence. To successfully solve a problem such as 8+ 4 = _ + 5, students have to read the whole sentence before computing and need to recognize that both sides of the equation need to have the same sum. The equal sign needs to be interpreted as a relational symbol expressing equivalence.
Considering students' difficulties with the equal sign, their understanding of the concept of equality can be questioned; however, Schliemann, Carraher, Brizuela, and Jones (1988) and Falkner et al. (1999) have observed that students show a correct understanding of equality when considering concrete physical contexts or verbal word problems. The children's misinterpretations are linked to the use of the equal symbol rather than an understanding of the concept of equality (Carpenter et al., 2003; Falkner et al., 1999, Schifter, Monk, Russell, & Bastable, in press). Most studies about the equal sign (Behr et al., 1980; Falkner et al., 1999; Saenz-Judlow & Walgamuth, 1998) have claimed that traditional curriculum does not promote a relational understanding of this symbol, mainly because of the repeated consideration of equations of the form a [+ or -] b = c throughout students' arithmetic learning. ...
If you are trying to select text to create highlights or citations, remember that you must now click or tap on the first word, and then click or tap on the last word.
Default project is now your active project.
Some of your highlights are legacy items.
Some of your citations are legacy items.
Citations are available only to our active members.
1. Lois J. Einhorn, Abraham Lincoln, the Orator: Penetrating the Lincoln Legend (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1992), 25, http://www.questia.com/read/27419298.
Please submit a word or phrase above.
Why can't I print more than one page at a time?
1. Click or tap the first word you want to select.
2. Click or tap the last word you want to select, and youll see everything in between get selected.
3. Youll then get a menu of options like creating a highlight or a citation from that passage of text.
Citations are available only to our active members.
"Portraying himself as an honest, ordinary person helped Lincoln identify with his audiences." (Einhorn, 1992, p. 25).
1. Lois J. Einhorn, Abraham Lincoln, the Orator: Penetrating the Lincoln Legend (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1992), 25, http://www.questia.com/read/27419298.
## Thanks for trying Questia!
Please continue trying out our research tools, but please note, full functionality is available only to our active members.
Your work will be lost once you leave this Web page.

`(log_10 x)^2 = log_10 4*log_10 6` has two solutions.
The negative value gives another solution of the equation.
The equation `log_4 x = log_x 6` has to be solved for x.
Use the formula `log_a b = (log_x b)/(log_x a)` which can be used to change the base of any logarithm.

A circle is understood as a figure that consists of a plurality of points on a plane equidistant from its center. The distance from the center to the points of the circle is called the radius.
Before finding the coordinates of this or that point of the circle, draw the given circle. While constructing it, you may come across many new concepts. So a chord is a segment that connects two points of a circle, and the chord passing through the center of the circle is the maximum (it is called the diameter). In addition, a tangent can be drawn to the circle, which is a straight line perpendicular to the radius of the circle, which is drawn to the point of intersection of the tangent and the geometric figure in question.
If, according to the condition of the task, it is known that the circle you constructed is intersected by another circle (it is smaller in size), depict this graphically: the figure should show that these two circles intersect, that is, they have a number of common points. Mark the center of the first circle with point 1 (its coordinates (X1, Y1)), and its radius - R1. Thus, the center of the second circle should be designated by point 2 (the coordinates of this point (X2, Y2)), and the radius - R2. At the intersection points of the shapes, put points 3 (X3, Y3) and 4 (X4, Y4). The center point of intersection must be designated 0: its coordinates (X, Y).
In order to find the coordinates of the intersection of these circles, and therefore the point belonging to both the first and the second of them, you will have to solve the quadratic equation. Consider the two formed triangles (? 103 and? 203) and analyze their performance. The hypotenuses of these triangles are R1 and R2, respectively. Knowing the value of the hypotenuses, find the segment D connecting the center of the first circle with the center of the second. The chosen calculation method directly depends on how the triangles you are analyzing turned out to be. If they are rectangular, then the square of the length of the hypotenuse of each of them will be equal to the sum of the squares of the legs of this triangle. In addition, the length of the leg can be found by the formula: a = ccos?, Where c is the length of the hypotenuse, and cos? Is the cosine of the included angle. Having found the value of the legs, determine the coordinates of the point of interest.

Bro literally I am doing great and progressing in python. I haven't bought the pro version yet but there is also some free challenges. So like the other challenges there is a challenge about while loop called "While loop changed". And I literally cant solve it. Giving the codes description down below. You need to change the code to calculate and output the sum of all digits of the input number. Sample Input 643 Sample Output 13 Explanation The sum of the digits of 643 is 6+4+3 = 13. Thats how the question looks like. Man give me the solution as well as the explanation. Thank you for helping me.
Dont worry its quite easy to understand :- 1) First break down the problem . In this case , you have to add the digits of a number which is given as an input So :- Input--->Add the digits of the input--->print the output The input and print part isnt really hard ,is it ? Lets see the adding digits part Approach - iterate through the number by converting to a string. ITERATE means seeking each element/portion one by one . Converting to a string , why is it even necessary ? It is because only some data types in python ARE ITERABLE . One such type is a string So num = str(input()) #converting to a string sum = 0 #originally the sum is 0. for i in num : # This is the iteration , assuming that you know about for loops . If you dont , I suggest you to learn about them. sum = sum + i #Now , after the iterations its time to give the output ! print(sum) If you still dont understand what I meant , dont worry all of it will become obvious once you lean about for loops.
sum = 0 for digit in str(643): sum += int(digit) print(sum) Try this, should be self-explanatory.
Max Harder Can you plz Explain???
In order to get the digits, convert the integer to a string and then sum up the characters as integers with the help of a for-loop.

# How Do You Figure the Break-Even Point With the Given Contribution Margin Ratio?
When you run a small business, its important to always know your break-even point -- the amount of sales needed to pay for all of your costs in a period. Below break-even, you generate a loss; above it, you turn a profit. The contribution margin ratio reveals the percentage of sales that applies to your fixed costs after covering variable costs. When you know your contribution margin ratio, you can figure your break-even point in dollars and units with a couple of straightforward calculations.
The contribution margin ratio, as a percentage, equals your contribution margin in dollars divided by sales, times 100. Your contribution margin in dollars equals sales minus total variable costs. The higher your contribution margin, the quicker you can potentially generate a profit because a greater portion of each sales dollar goes toward fixed costs. You can figure your contribution margin ratio using sales and expense information from your most recent year in business.
Fixed costs are those that remain the same regardless of your sales volume. Examples include rent, fixed salaries and wages, property taxes and utilities. In general, the lower your fixed costs, the lower your break-even point. Variable costs, however, increase when sales rise and decrease when sales fall. Examples of variable costs are commissions and wages tied to sales volume, costs to buy products and materials used to make products.
Assume your small business generated \$800,000 in sales and had \$360,000 in total variable costs last year. Your contribution margin equals \$440,000, or \$800,000 minus \$360,000. Your contribution margin ratio equals 55 percent, or \$440,000 divided by \$800,000, times 100. This means that 55 cents of every dollar of sales revenue goes toward paying your fixed expenses.
Your break-even point in dollars equals your total fixed costs for a particular period divided by your contribution margin ratio. Using the previous example, assume your total annual fixed expenses are \$350,000. Your break-even point is \$636,364, or \$350,000 divided by 55 percent. This means you must generate \$636,364 in annual sales to pay for all of your costs. When your sales reach this level, you have neither a profit nor a loss. If you sell more than that amount, you earn a profit.
The break-even point in units represents the number of units you must sell to break even. The formula equals your break-even point in dollars divided by the price for which you sell each unit. A unit might be one product, a billable hour of service or some similar measurement. In the previous example, assume you sell your products for \$50 a piece. Your break-even point in units is approximately 12,728, or \$636,364 divided by \$50. You must sell 12,728 units during the year to cover all of your expenses.

# A piggy bank contains hundred 50 p coins, fifty Re. 1 coins, twenty Rs. 2 coins and ten Rs. 5 coins. If it is equally likely that one of the coins will fall out when the bank is turned upside down, what is the probability that the coin will be a 50 p coin?
So, one coin out of 180 coins can fall out in 180 ways.
There are hundred 50 p coins, out of which one 50 p coin can fall out in Hence, P(a 50 p coin will fall) = 100/180 = 5/9.
Learn from their 1-to-1 discussion with Filo tutors.
Stuck on the question or explanation?
Connect with our Mathematics tutors online and get step by step solution of this question.

We will use the cross product and dot product of vectors to explore equations of lines and planes in 3 dimensional space. Vector functions have an input t and an output of a vector function of t.
A position vector is a vector whose initial point is fixed at the origin so that each point corresponds to P = <x,y>. Since a position vector cannot be translated, it is technically not a vector, so it instead should be considered as a means of using arithmetic of vectors with point in the plane. In this case, any two given points on a line will have it's own position vector.
We can define L(t) to be a vector valued function which maps the input of t to the output vectors L(t). In two dimensions, the equation would look similar to the equation of a line in slope intercept form.
We use t because it is the parameter, or index of each point on the line. We use t because a point is often labeled by the time at which an object is located at that point. In this case, b is a fixed point (position vector) on the line and v is the vector between two points on the line, or the constant slope vector for the line.
The physical interpretation of this equation is that if an object moves along the line at a constant speed equal to the magnitude of v, then t would be the time at which the object is located at point L(t) on the line.
The reason why the vector equation of a line is used is because it generalizes to more than 2 dimensions, which the slope intercept form cannot. We can do the same thing for 3 dimensional lines.
For example, let's find the equation of the line that passes through the points P1(2,4,1) and P2(5,1,2) where P1 is at t = 0 and P2 is at t = 1.
Plugging t = 0 and t = 1 we get our original points.
Lets find the equation of the plane with normal <5,4,3> going through the point <0,1,2> on the plane.
Isolating z, we can put the equation into functional form.
To find the equation of the plane through three non colinear points, we have to form two vectors connecting one of the points to the other two. Let u = P1P2 and v = P1P3. These vectors are both parallel to the plane, so the cross product will yield a normal vector, that is, a vector that is perpendicular to both u and v, and therefore perpendicular to the plane.
First, we find vectors u and v.
Then, we use the formula for the cross product to find the normal vector.
Using the points in a different order may yield a different vector, however the functional form will always be the same.
We can also find the equation of a plane given a line and a point not on the line. All we need to do is plug in different values of t to get three different points, and then solve using the previous method.
Sign up for free to access more calculus resources like . WyzAnt Resources features blogs, videos, lessons, and more about calculus and over 250 other subjects. Stop struggling and start learning today with thousands of free resources!

MAFS.1.NBT.2.3 Compare two two-digit numbers based on meanings of the tens and ones digits, recording the results of comparisons with the symbols >, =, and <.
MAFS.1.OA.2.4 Understand subtraction as an unknown-addend problem. For example, subtract 10 8 by finding the number that makes 10 when added to 8.
MAFS.1.OA.3.5 Relate counting to addition and subtraction (e.g., by counting on 2 to add 2).
MAFS.1.OA.3.6 Add and subtract within 20, demonstrating fluency for addition and subtraction within 10. Use strategies such as counting on; making ten (e.g., 8 + 6 = 8 + 2 + 4 = 10 + 4 = 14); decomposing a number leading to a ten (e.g., 13 4 = 13 3 1 = 10 1 = 9); using the relationship between addition and subtraction (e.g., knowing that 8 + 4 = 12, one knows 12 8 = 4); and creating equivalent but easier or known sums (e.g., adding 6 + 7 by creating the known equivalent 6 + 6 + 1 = 12 + 1 = 13).
MAFS.1.OA.4.7 Understand the meaning of the equal sign, and determine if equations involving addition and subtraction are true or false. For example, which of the following equations are true and which are false? 6 = 6, 7 = 8 1, 5 + 2 = 2 + 5, 4 + 1 = 5 + 2.
MAFS.1.OA.4.8 Determine the unknown whole number in an addition or subtraction equation relating three whole numbers. For example, determine the unknown number that makes the equation true in each of the equations 8 + ? = 11, 5 = _ 3, 6 + 6 = _.
MAFS.1.NBT.3.5 Given a two-digit number, mentally find 10 more or 10 less than the number, without having to count; explain the reasoning used.
MAFS.1.G.1.1 Distinguish between defining attributes (e.g., triangles are closed and three-sided) versus non-defining attributes (e.g., color, orientation, overall size) ; build and draw shapes to possess defining attributes.

Direct materials purchases budget Magnolia Candle Inc. budgeted production of 74,200 candles in 20Y4. Wax is required to produce a candle. Assume that eight ounces (one-half of a pound) of wax is required for each candle. The estimated January 1, 20Y4, wax inventory is 2,500 pounds. The desired December 31, 20Y4, wax inventory is 2,100 pounds. If candle wax costs $4.10 per pound, determine the direct materials purchases budget for 20Y4. BuyFind Accounting 27th Edition WARREN + 5 others Publisher: Cengage Learning, ISBN: 9781337272094 BuyFind Accounting 27th Edition WARREN + 5 others Publisher: Cengage Learning, ISBN: 9781337272094 Solutions Chapter Section Chapter 22, Problem 22.3BPE Textbook Problem Direct materials purchases budgetMagnolia Candle Inc. budgeted production of 74,200 candles in 20Y4. Wax is required to produce a candle. Assume that eight ounces (one-half of a pound) of wax is required for each candle. The estimated January 1, 20Y4, wax inventory is 2,500 pounds. The desired December 31, 20Y4, wax inventory is 2,100 pounds. If candle wax costs$4.10 per pound, determine the direct materials purchases budget for 20Y4.
Budgeting is a process to prepare the financial statement by the manager to estimate the organizations future actions. It is also helpful to satisfy the everyday activities.
To Calculate: The direct materials purchases budget for 20Y4.
Calculate the direct materials purchases budget for 20Y4.
 M Incorporation Direct Materials Purchases Budget For the year ending December 31, 20Y4 Particulars Units Pounds required for production: Candles 37,100(1) Add: Desired ending inventory, December 31, 20Y4 2,100 Total Pounds required 39,200 Less: Estimated beginning inventory, January 1, 20Y4 (2,500) Total Pounds To Be Purchased (A) 36,700 Unit price per pound (B) \$4...
Want to see the full answer?
Want to see this answer and more?
Bartleby provides explanations to thousands of textbook problems written by our experts, many with advanced degrees!
What are the advantages of a sole proprietorship?
When should a standard cost variance be investigated?
COLEMAN TECHNOLOGIES INC. COST OF CAPITAL Coleman Technologies is considering a major expansion program that ha...
What do competitive price searchers have to do to make economic profit?

Presentation is loading. Please wait.
Friction: static electricity from rubbing (walking across a carpet) Pressure: piezoelectricity from squeezing crystals together (quartz watch) Heat: voltage produced at junction of dissimilar metals (thermocouple) Light: voltage produced from light striking photocell (solar power) Chemical: voltage produced from chemical reaction (wet or dry cell battery) Magnetism: voltage produced using electromotive induction (AC or DC generator).
RT = R1 + R2 + R Resistors in Parallel 1/RT = 1/R1 + 1/R2 + 1/R Examples: should be able to find total current flow in circuit, current flow through each resistor, voltages, power dissipated, etc.
Download ppt "Electrical Theory I - The Basics"

This content was COPIED from BrainMass.com - View the original, and get the already-completed solution here!
a. Create a hedge with the futures contract for Zinn Company's planned June debt offering of \$10 million. What is the implied yield on the bond underlying the future's contract?
b. Suppose interest rates fall by 300 basis points. What is the dollar savings from issuing the debt at the new interest rate? What is the dollar change in value of the futures position? What is the total dollar value change of the hedged position?
c. Create a graph showing the effectiveness of the hedge if the change in interest rates, in basis points, is: -300, -200, -100, 0, 100, 200, or 300. Show the dollar cost (or savings) from issuing the debt at the new interest rates, the dollar change in value of the futures position, and the total dollar value change.

1. $p$, which represents the average cost of the paper, will go up if the cost of the her favorite paper goes up.
2. $b$, which represents the number of boxes that she wraps, will go up in the holiday season.
3. 4 is multiplied by $hl$, which represent "height x length," so, the four must represent the 4 sides of the box.
4. $hl$ (height times length) is multiplied by 4 and $lw$ (length times width) is multiplied by 2. So, an increase in height would have a bigger impact on costs (because it is multiplied 4 times rather than 2).
5. $d$ represents the number of days that have passed, so as summer progresses, this variable should increase.
6. Because each day that passes subtracts 64 from 3670, $L$ should go down as the summer passes (and $d$ increases).
7. In this equation, there's a starting point, that goes down a little each day. Because the question is about reading, 3670 must be the starting number of pages that need to be read.
8. And, each day the number 3670 decreases a little, in fact, it decreases by 64 pages a day. 64 represents the number of pages Garret reads each day.
9. 5 is multiplied by $h$ which represents hours. So, the boat must cost 5 dollars per hour.
10. 8 is not multiplied by anything. It is a constant. It must cost 8 dollars to rent a boat, no matter how long it is rented for or how many riders are going in the boat.
11. Because the boats cost more per hour than they do per rider, it would be cheaper for the larger group (8 people) to rent for a shorter time than a larger group to rent for a shorter time.
$C=8+5(4)+3(4)=40$ (one boat, only 4 people, so two boats with 4 people each would be \\$80, which would be more).
Definitely cheaper for everyone to get in the same boat!

How do you solve the following problems that involve percentages?
5 is 20% of what number?
20% of 120 equals ?
5 is what percent 25?
Lets see how this works.
5 is 20% of what Number?
What is 20% of 120 ?
5 is what percent of 25?
This video works several similar problems. Each problem can be solved using is over of.

The chi-square calculator will help you conduct the goodness of fit test, also known as the chi-square test. This statistic is used when you want to determine whether your data is consistent with the expected distribution. Read on to learn how to calculate the chi-square value and use the chi-square tables to determine the quality of your data. Make sure to take a look at our p-value calculator, too!
## What is the chi-square test?
Imagine that you are a teacher at high school. You grade a test, giving the marks 2 (the worst) to 5 (the best). You expect 15% of the students to obtain grade 5, 40% to obtain a 4, 30% to get a 3, and 15% to fail by getting a 2. Once you grade one class's papers, you can test how your grading differs from the intended distribution using the chi-square test calculator. It is simply a test that measures how the observed values differ from the expected ones.
## How to calculate chi-square?
2 = (5 - 9)2 / 9 = (-4)2 / 9 = 16/9 = 1.778.
## How to perform the chi-square test for the goodness of fit?
The test statistic for the goodness of fit chi-square test is the sum of chi-square values that appear in the distribution in question. Hence, in our case, for all possible marks.
 Degrees of freedom: Number of levels of the analyzed variable minus one. For instance, in our grading example, we have four levels (grades 2, 3, 4, and 5). Hence, the number of degrees of freedom is equal to 3. If you're not yet familiar with this notion, take a look at the degrees of freedom calculator.
 Significance level: it is denoted as a subscript next to the symbol 2. This is the probability of rejecting your hypothesis when it was in fact true. The higher this risk is, the more extreme data is accepted as still valid.
Let's analyze the situation with paper grading in greater detail. Let's say you have 60 students and graded them in the following way: five received a 5, twenty-two a 4, twenty-six a 3, and seven a 2.
1. Calculate how many students were expected to receive each grade according to the planned distribution.
1. Calculate the chi-square value for each grade.
2. As we've already explained, there are 3 degrees of freedom.
3. What is your significance level? We can assume that it is equal to 0.05.
4. You can now use the chi-square tables to determine whether our data can be accepted as consistent with the initial distribution. For 3 degrees of freedom and significance level 0.05, chi-square's maximum permissible value is 7.815. As 2 = 5.945, we are in the acceptable range - the grading is not far off from the initial distribution.

# walking across a surface.
Activating Strategy Think about a time where you have fallen walking across a surface. What made you fall ?
Essential Question: How do gravity, inertia, and friction affect the balance of forces?
If you roll or kick a ball, what happens eventually?
Forces If you roll or kick a ball, what happens eventually? An unbalanced force is needed to change the speed of a moving object. So, what force is stopping the ball?
Friction is a force that opposes motion between two surfaces.
Forces: Friction Friction is a force that opposes motion between two surfaces.
Forces: Friction Friction occurs because the surface of any object is rough. Even surfaces that feel smooth are covered with microscopic hills and valleys.
Forces: Friction When two surfaces are in contact, the hills and valleys of one surface stick to the hills and valleys of the other surface.
Forces: Friction The amount of friction depends on factors such as roughness of the surfaces and the force pushing the surfaces together.
Turn to a partner and identify surfaces that may cause more friction.
Forces: Friction Friction is both harmful and helpful. Turn to an elbow partner and identify some examples of friction being harmful and friction being helpful.
Is it beneficial to reduce or increase friction? Why or Why Not?
Forces: Friction Is it beneficial to reduce or increase friction? Why or Why Not?
Name three common items you might use to increase friction.
Forces: Friction Which of the following would NOT help you move a heavy object across a concrete floor? Water, ball bearings, oil, liquid soap, steel rods, foam rubber Name three common items you might use to increase friction.
Air resistance is a form of friction. Look at the images below. Why would air resistance be a form of friction?
Would a school bus or a racing car be affected less by air resistance? Why? Air resistance depends on the size, shape, and speed of the object.
Teachers either demonstrate the activity, have small groups so the activity outside, or watch a short video clip of the activity. What force is acting on the cup and the water?
Gravity Gravity is a force of attraction between objects that is due to their masses. All objects experience an attraction toward all other objects. This gravitational force pulls objects toward each other. The attraction between objects will be discussed in more depth in the next essential question. For this essential question, we just need students to understand that all objects have the force of gravity pulling them toward the earth which keeps things in place unless an unbalanced force occurs.
Gravity Compared with all other objects around you, Earth has a huge mass. Therefore, Earths gravitational force is very large. You must apply forces to overcome Earths gravitational force any time you lift objects or even parts of your body.
Gravity Earths gravitational force pulls everything toward the center of Earth. Because of this force, the books, tables, and chairs in the room stay in place, and dropped objects fall to Earth rather than moving together toward you.
Balanced forces do not cause a change in motion.
When two forces acting on an object are equal in size, but are opposite in direction, we say the forces are balanced. Balanced forces do not cause a change in motion.
Force Diagrams We can show the forces acting on an object in a force diagram. In a force diagram, the force is shown with an arrow the larger the arrow, the bigger the force The arrows in a force diagram also show the direction that the force is acting on Sometimes, the arrow will be labeled with the size of the force in Newtons (N). A larger number means a larger force.
Which forces are acting on the vase?
Unbalanced Forces When two forces are acting on an object and are not equal in size, we say the forces are unbalanced. Unbalanced forces cause a change in motion by changing the objects speed or direction.
Unbalanced Forces The paperclip is jumping up to the magnet.
Forces Each team is exerting a force what happens if the pulling force produced by each team is equal? What would happen if the team on the left were able to produce a bigger pulling force than the team on the right?
Which arm wrestler will likely win? Which direction will both arms move?
Which direction will the rope move?
Unbalanced Forces 4 N, left 10 N, right Which direction will the rope move?
Which direction will the ball roll?
Unbalanced Forces Which direction will the ball roll?
Imagine that you are playing baseball. The pitch comes in and you hit the ball hard. But, instead of flying off the bat, the ball just drops to the ground. Is that normal?
You would probably say no. You know that force and motion are related.
When you exert a force on a baseball by hitting it with a bat, the baseball should move.
Isaac Newton explained this relationship between force and the motion of an object.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STQRUzalH2M What happened to the egg? Why?
What happens when riding bumper cars? Why?
Law of Inertia Inertia is the tendency of an object to resist being moved or, if the object is moving, to resist a change in speed or direction until an outside force acts on the object.
Law of Inertia Because of Inertia, an object at rest will stay at rest unless acted on by an unbalanced force. In other words, objects will not start moving until a push or a pull is exerted on them.
Law of Inertia An object in motion remains in motion unless acted on by an unbalanced force. The object will continue to move in the same direction with the same speed unless an unbalanced force occurs.
An object that has a small mass has less inertia than an object that has a large mass So, changing the motion of an object that has a small mass is easier than changing the motion of an object that has a large mass.
The car because it has more mass therefore more inertia.
Mass and Inertia Look at the images below. Which would require more force to move or slow down? Why? The car because it has more mass therefore more inertia.
Mass and Inertia Which would require more force to move or slow down? Why? The bowling ball because it has more mass therefore more inertia.
The snowboard is in motion. Based on the Law of Inertia, the snowboard will keep moving right? What force(s) allow him to snowboard on the brick wall and rail?
Objects in motion remain in motion unless acted on by an unbalanced force. Friction is often the unbalanced force that causes objects to slow down and stop moving. Because of friction, the motion of objects changes.
If a moose were chasing you through the woods, its enormous mass would be very threatening. But if you zigzagged, then its great mass would be to your advantage. Explain why.

"Oops it seam "tip" is set to 0 instead of 0.15"
just that why cant we say 15/100, instead we have type "15.0/100"
is it a must to put decimals??
In Python 2.7, `15/100` is zero. Two integers in a division expression return an integer, and 0 is the only one available in this case.
Because of implicit type casting of number objects. When we give Python, `15`, we give it an integer. Implicitly, this is type-cast as `int`. Give it `100` and again, an `int`. The result of the division will be `int`, which is `0`.
ok I see then what is 15.0 exactly?
an int or something else?
ok so I read other posts and from I see 15.0 is something like a float value?
Now we're talking. The value has a type.
Once we explicitly declare one value as a float, it matters nor what type the other value is. The outcome will be a float.
What is a float? Anything that can be written as, `0.X` where `X` is any uninterrupted number sequence. PI minus 3 is an example of a float.
okay but what is float value?
Late edit. Go back a post for reply.
I realised something: 15 will be considered an int. 15.0, though in mathematical terms is an integer, but it has to be specified to be "float value" so that the results we get is "float value" too right? Because when 15/100 is keyed in we get integer values but when 15.0/100 is in we get the float value aka the exact value am I right?
This topic was automatically closed 7 days after the last reply. New replies are no longer allowed.

Now, we'll complete the square by adding the amount b^2.
To complete the 2nd aquare we'll identify what is the missing term and it is b^2.
We'll complete the 3rd square. We notice that the missing term is 2ab.
We'll complete the 4th square. We'll identify the missing term as 2ab.
We'll complete the fimal square. We notice that the missing term is 2ab.

